
Transcriber's Note:

  Inconsistent hyphenation and spelling in the original document have
  been preserved. Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_. Superscripts are prefixed
  with a ^caret.

  This book is the third of three volumes.  Page numbering continues
  from Volume 2.  The other volumes are available at:

  Volume 1: http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/43774
  Volume 2: http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/43775





Pike's Expeditions.
VOLUME III.




     THE EXPEDITIONS
     OF
     ZEBULON MONTGOMERY PIKE,

     To Headwaters of the Mississippi River,
     Through Louisiana Territory, and in New Spain,
     During the Years 1805-6-7.

     A NEW EDITION,
     NOW FIRST REPRINTED IN FULL FROM THE ORIGINAL OF 1810,
     WITH COPIOUS CRITICAL COMMENTARY,
     MEMOIR OF PIKE, NEW MAP AND OTHER ILLUSTRATIONS,
     AND COMPLETE INDEX,

     BY
     ELLIOTT COUES,
     Late Captain and Assistant Surgeon, United States Army,
     Late Secretary and Naturalist, United States Geological Survey,
     Member of the National Academy of Sciences,
     Editor of Lewis and Clark,
     etc., etc., etc.

     IN THREE VOLUMES.
     VOL. III.
     Index--Maps.

     NEW YORK:
     FRANCIS P. HARPER.
     1895.




     COPYRIGHT, 1895,
     BY
     FRANCIS P. HARPER,
     New York.

     All rights reserved.




LIST OF MAPS AND OTHER PLATES.


VOLUME I.

PORTRAIT OF ZEBULON M. PIKE,                       Frontispiece

FACSIMILE LETTER OF ZEBULON M. PIKE,             Facing Page lx


VOLUME III.

FALLS OF ST. ANTHONY.

MAP OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER FROM ITS SOURCE TO THE MOUTH OF THE
MISSOURI.

FIRST PART OF CAPTAIN PIKE'S CHART OF THE INTERNAL PART OF LOUISIANA.

CHART OF THE INTERNAL PART OF LOUISIANA.

MAP OF THE INTERNAL PROVINCES OF NEW SPAIN.

SKETCH OF THE VICE ROYALTY OF NEW SPAIN.

(The above six maps are reproduced in facsimile from the Philadelphia
edition of 1810.)

HISTORICO-GEOGRAPHICAL CHART OF THE UPPER MISSISSIPPI RIVER, COMPILED
AND DRAWN UNDER THE DIRECTION OF DR. ELLIOTT COUES, BY DANIEL W.
CRONIN, 1895.




  [Illustration: FALLS of S^T ANTHONY]




INDEX.

N. B.--This index covers all the matter of the two preceding volumes,
both of main text and notes thereto. It is mainly an index of names,
proper and common, without analysis of what comes under them. All
proper names are intended to be indexed in every place where they
occur, except a few of incessant recurrence, in the cases of which
some selection is made. Of common names the list is quite full, though
it is exclusive, as a rule, of mere mention or allusion. Proper are
distinguished from common nouns by capitalization, the same as they
would be if occurring in ordinary sentences. The arrangement of the
entries is intended to be strictly alphabetical, without regard to the
logical order in which phrase-names and phrases would follow one
another; thus, Mountjoy's name comes between Mt. Hosmer and Mt. Keyes;
various Sandy things interrupt the canon of Spanish saints whose names
begin with San; and so on. Contractions and abbreviations are
alphabetized as if they were spelled out. Place-names which are
phrases are entered as usually spoken or written, but a great many of
them are also re-entered in another form or in other forms; as, Rio
Conejos and Conejos r. Alternative and variant names of the same thing
are all entered, but cross-references are made only in special cases.
Roman numerals all refer to pages of the introductory matter in Vol.
I.; the unbroken pagination of the rest of the work obviates reference
by vol. for the Arabic figures. Besides serving the usual purpose,
this index has been made the depository of various belated items,
which do not appear elsewhere in the work, and really contains no
little additional information, with here and there a correction.

Usual abbreviations or contractions for names of States and
Territories, civic and military titles, etc.; also, the following:

Ark. r., Arkansaw river; br., branch (of a stream); chf., (Indian)
chief; co., county; cr., creek; fk., fork (of a stream); Ind., Inds.,
Indian, Indians; isl., island; l., lake; ldg., landing; Miss. r.,
Mississippi river; Mo. r., Missouri river; Mt., mt., Mount, mountain;
pk., peak; pra., prairie; pt., point; r., river; rap., rapid or
rapids; res., (Indian) reservation; R. R., Ry., railroad, railway;
sl., slough; spr., spring, springs; st., street; St., Saint; sta.,
(railroad) station; tp., township.


A

Aaiaoua, 22

Abadie, d', 213, 214

Abajo, Hacienda de, 682

Abboinug, 31

Abert, J. J., 334

Abert, J. W., 429, 446, 607, 615, 617, 630, 633, 645, 737

Abicu, N. M., 604

Abies balsamea, 132, 318, 320

Abilene, Kas., 403, 404

Abricu, N. M., 605

Abrupt Discharges, see Kapuka

Abstract of Indians, etc., 590, 591

Abstract of Nations, etc., 346, 347

Acanza, 559

Acapulco, Mex., 721, 722, 791

Accault, M., 3, 5, 13, 35, 64, 65, 68, 70, 71, 91, 95

accountants, 286

acequias, 621, 652, 740, 741

Acer saccharinum, 157

Achipoe is a form of the word Ojibway or Chippewa

Aco, Acoma, N. M., 630, 745

Acomita, N. M., 745

Act of Congress, see Congress

Acts of Minnesota Legislature, 74, 164

Adaes, Adahi, Adai, Adaise, Adaizan, Adaize, Adaizi, 713, 714

Ada, Kas., 405

Adams co., Ill., 6, 9, 11

Adams, Gov. A., xlix, lv, 457, 471, 490

Adams isl., 26

Adams, Lieut., 686

Adams, Mrs. Ann, 84

Adams, Prest. J., lxx

Adana sta., Col., 442

Adayes, Adees, 713, 714

Adobe, Col., 462

Adobe cr., 446

Adyes, 713, 714

Africa, 525

Agate cr., 468

agave, 681

agricultural establishment, 15, 16, 211

agriculture of Osages, 532

Agua Caliente, N. M., 597, see Ojo Caliente

Agua de Leon, 675

Agua Fria, N. M., 614

Agua Fria r., Ariz., 734

Agua Nueva, Mex., 653

Aguas Calientes, State of, 719, 723

Agua Verde l., 776

Aguazul Inds., 731, 736, see Havasupai

Ahacus, 742

Ahmokave, Hamookhabi, are same word as Mojave, and said by some to
mean "three mountains"

Aiatans, 412

Aiavvi, 22

Aile pra., 206

Aile Rouge, 69, 202, 205, 257, 347

Aiowais, 346, 347

Aird, George, 24

Aird, James, 24, 32, 225, 293

Aishkabugakosh, Aishkebugekoshe, Aishkibugikozsh, 169

Aitkin, Alfred, see Aitkin, Wm.

Aitkin co., Minn., 134, 135, 137, 143, 175, 314

Aitkin l., 137

Aitkin, Minn., 134, 135, 136, 137, 157

Aitkin, Robert, see Aitkin, Wm.

Aitkin's ferry, 122

Aitkin's post is that referred to, 138

Aitkinsville, see Aitkin, Wm.

Aitkin, Wm., or Wm. A., or Wm. R., or Robert, 330, believed to be the
same "Mr." Aitkin. Among licensed traders in Minnesota in 1833 were W.
A. Aitkin, at Fond du Lac, and Alfred Aitkin, at Sandy l. Wm. Aitkin,
of Little Rock, signed a memorial in 1848. In Minn. Hist. Coll., I.
86, J. F. Williams speaks of W. A. Aitkin as at Sandy l. in 1832; see
op. cit., V. 483; on p. 382 it says W. A. Aitken was given the trade
of the Amer. Fur Co. in Fond du Lac dept., 1826; died 1851, "and lies
buried at Aitkinsville (Swan river)." The Hist. Up. Miss. Vall., 1881,
says Wm. Aitkin located at Swan r., 1848. His half-breed son Alfred,
doubtless the one above mentioned, was murdered at Leech Lake post,
1836. Name varies also to Aitken, Aikin, Aiken

Ajuntos isl., 692

Akansa, 559

Akaque, 347

Ako l., 166, named for M. Accault by Hon. I. V. D. Heard

Alabama, cx, cxi, 748

alacrans, 763

Alameda Arriba, Mex., 688

Alameda, N. M., 619

alamedas, 681, 682

Alamito, Mex., 677

Alamo de los Pinos, N. M., 621

Alamo de Parras, Mex., 677, 681

Alamo de Pe√±a, 652

Alamo, Mex., 688, 689

Alamo r., br. of Rio Grande, 691

Alamos, 761

Alamosa, Col., 494

Alamosa cr., 494, 497

Alamosa de Parras, 680

Alamosa r., in N. M., 637

Alamos r., 774

Alamos, Sonora, 773

Alarcon, Alarchon, Hernando de, discovered Colorado r. of the West,
Aug. 26th, 1540; said he navigated it 85 leagues; returned same year
without joining Coronado

Albach's Annals, 438

Albany Argus, xxiii

Albany, Ill., 26

Albany, N. Y., liii, lxx, lxxiii

Albion, Minn., 128

Alboquerque, A. d', 619

Albuquerque, Alburquerque, N. M., 619, 621, 625, 626, 739, old town
founded about 1701. See H. H. Bancroft's Arizona and New Mexico, notes
to pp. 168, 228, 231 _seq._

Albykirk, Albykirky, 619

Alchedoma, see Jalchedum

Alcontre r., 691

Alder r., 137

Aldrich, Hon. Chas., preface and xlix

Alencaster, Alencastre, see Allencaster

Aleutian isls., 53

Alexander, Gen., 82

Alexandria, Mo., 14

Algodones, N. M., 616, 617, 619

Algona l., 310

Algonquian, Algonquin Inds., 289, 337, 341, 346, 351, 353

Alice l., 162

Aliche, 711

alicrans, 763

Alim8pigoiak, Alinoupigouak, see Assiniboine

Allamakee co., Ia., 38, 41, 42, 305

Allan, see Allen

Alleghany, Allegheny mts., 444, 454, 523

Allen, Allan, Maj. W., ciii

Allen, Andrew H., preface

Allencaster, Don Joachin or Joaquin del Real, xlvii, 504, 508, 509,
608, 609, 610, 611, 612, 613, 622, 758, 807, 808, 809, 823, 828, 850,
was governor 1805-08

Allencaster's brother, 648

Allen co., Kas., 395, 397

Allende r., 670

Allen, J. A., see Coues and Allen

Allen, Judge C. H., 390

Allen l., 128, 332, named by Brower for Lieut. James Allen

Allen, Lieut. Jas., 97, 101, 102, 103, 104, 122, 124, 127, 143, 147,
156, 161, 163, 167, 309, 328, 329, 330, 331, 332, 335

Allenoga r., 162, name compounded by Schoolcraft of Allen + oga

Allen's bay, 157, 158, 160, 332

Allouez, 288

Alma bluffs, 58

Almagra, Almagre r., 452

Almansa, see D'Almansa

Alma, Wis., 55, 56, 57, 59, 60, 62

Almighty, the, 352, 353

Alomas, 761, see Alamos

Alona, 742

Alnwick, Col., 465

Alston, Mr., 841

Altac, Altar, in Sonora, 773

Altar r., 771

Alton, Ill., 2, 5

Alvarado, Hernando de, August, 1540, was sent by Coronado from Cibola
(Zu√±i) to Cicuye (Pecos) via Acuco (Acoma) and Tiguex (near
Bernalillo, N. M.), and returned to Tiguex

Amaqua, Amaquaqua, 735, also Amacava, Amajava

Amaranth isl., 6

Amazon bend, 2

Amazonian woman, 694

Amelia l., 90

American Antiquarian Society, xxxiv

American Fur Company, 156, 204, 298

American Philosophical Society, 77

American State Papers, 10, 840

Americus sta., Col., 470

amusements, Spanish, 789

Anakigi, 66

Analectic Magazine, lxxix

Anamas r., 445, 730, see Animas r.

Andabazo cr. or r., 672, 673

Andaig r., in Schoolcraft, 1855, for Karishon or Crow r.

Andalusia, Ill., 23, 24

Anderson, Col. A. L., 634

Anderson, Geo., 154, 155, 172, 180, 202, 272, 280, 283

Anderson, Geo., his brother, 202

Anderson, Mrs. M. B., preface

Andes, 461

Andreas' Historical Atlas, 17

Andr√©, Maj., lxvi

Androctonus biaculeatus, 763

Andromeda, 67

Andrus cr., 163, named by Brower for the treasurer of the Minnesota
Game and Fish Commission

Andrusia l., 160, named by Schoolcraft for Andrew Jackson, president
1829-37

Andrusian lakes of Eastman, 1855, are Elliott Coues and Pamitascodiac
or Tascodiac

Angelina, Angeline r., 709, 710, 782

Angle isl., 7

Anglo-American, xlvi, xlvii, 809

Anglojibway, 31

Animas r., br. of Rio Grande, 637

Anitons, 313

Annals of Iowa, xlix

Annals of New Mexico, 738

Ann l., 90

Anoka co., Minn., 96

Anoka, Minn., 94, orig. Sioux name of settlement at mouth of Rum r.,
meaning "on both sides"

Anser albifrons, 692

Antaya, Pierre, 37, 303, also found as Antagna

antelope, 399, 653, see cabrie

Antelope cr., br. of Ark. r., 547

Antelope cr., br. of Grape cr., 491

Antelope hills, Okla., 559

Anthony, St., 91

Anthony sta., N. M., 640

Antigua r., 722

Antilocapra americana, 399, 653

antiquities of Arizona, 741, 742

Antlers Hotel, Colorado Springs, 456

Antoine r., 213

Apache arrows, 747, 749

Apache assassin, 752

Apache weapons, 749

Apaches, xlvii, xcviii, 413, 598, 599, 631, 632, 633, 636, 639, 648,
651, 679, 697, 731, 735, 744, 746, 747, 748, 749, 750, 751, 752, 768,
778, 785

Apaches, anecdotes of, 750, 751, 752

Apaches, character of, 748

Apaches, classification of, 748

Apaches of the Gila, 748

Apachquay l., 301

Apex sta., Mo., 5

apikan, 136, Ojibway name of the portage-strap in Barraga's Dict.

Apina, 742

Apishapa bluffs, 448

Apishapa, Apishipa, Apishpa r., 447, 448

Apostles' r., 734, translating Rio de los Apostoles, name given to the
Gila by Father Kino, 1699, when he called four of its branches Los
Evangelistas

apostles, twelve, 764

Appaches, see Apaches

Appannose, Appanooce, Ill., 17, 18

Appanoose cr., in Kas., 520

Apple r., 27, 28

Appleton, 300

Apuckaway, Apukwa l., 301

Aqas nueva, 653

Aqua, see Agua

Aqua Caliente, N. M., 597, 600, 601, 623, see Agua Caliente and Ojo
Caliente

aqueduct of Chihuahua, 765, 766

Aquico, 742

Aquinsa, 742

Arago, Dominique Fran√ßois, 334, b. Estagel, Feb. 26th, 1786, d. Paris,
Oct. 2d, 1853

Araignee Jaune, 347

Arapahoes, 435

archbishoprics, archbishops, 800, 801

Archev√™que, Jean l', 780, b. Bayonne, France, 1671, son of Claude
Archev√™que and Marie d'Armagnac; was at Santa F√©, 1696, with Pierre
Meunier and Jacques Grollet, two other of La Salle's men; married
Antonia Gutierez, 1697; married again Aug. 16th, 1719; had sons Miguel
and Augustin Archibeque (as the name became in New Mexico); was killed
by Pawnees and French somewhere on South Platte r. or Ark. r., Aug.
16th, 1720: see biog. in Bandelier's Gilded Man, pp. 289 to 302

Archibeque, see Archev√™que

Archipelago in Miss. r., 100, 192

architecture of Pawnees, 533, 534

archives, see Ontario and War Dept.

Arcs, River of, 815

Aretiqui r., 738

Arispea, 771, 773

arit, 772

Arivaca, 771

Arivaipa Apaches, 748

Arizona, xcviii, 646, 727, 730, 731, 734, 735, 736, 741, 742, 743,
744, 746, 747, 748, 770, 771, 772, 773

Arizpa, Arizpe, 719, 771, 772, 773

Arkansas, Arkansaw, cx, 559

Arkansas City, Tex., 697

Arkansas Post, Ark., 215, 432, 560, 561, 714

Arkansaw City, Kas., 549

Arkansaw Divide, in Col., 443, 451

Arkansaw dry route, in Kas., 433, 434

Arkansaw hills, in Rocky mts., 471

Arkansaw journey, Pike's, 357 to end of Pt. 2, also 845 to 854

Arkansaw journey, Wilkinson's Report on, 539 to 561

Arkansaw map, 426

Arkansaw Osages, 526, 529, 530, 532, 556, 557, 561, 566, 582, 590,
591, 827

Arkansaw Post, see Arkansas Post

Arkansaw r., xlv, xlvii, li, lxiv, 3, 381, 424, 425 and continuously
to 482, 514, 515, 516, 517, 518, 522, 523, 524, 535, 541, 544 and
continuously to 561, 563, 564, 580, 581, 583, 585, 587, 589, 590, 591,
592, 606, 612, 642, 692, 704, 705, 815, 822, 827, 834, 835, 837, 838,
840, 841, 844, 846, 847, 852, 854, 855

Arkansaw r., crossings of the, 439

Arkansaw route, 446, 447

Arkansaw schism, 530

Arkansaw villages, Kwapa, 559, 560

Arkansaw villages, see Arkansaw Osages

Arkensa Inds., 560

Arkensaw, see Arkansaw

Armendaris Grant, 633

Armes du Roy, etc., 64

Armijo, Don M., 607

armorer killed, lxxxv, lxxxvi

Arms of God r., 706

Armstrong, Gen. J., lxxiii, lxxix, lxxxiii, xc, ci, cii

Army of the West, 333, 446, 607, 639, 727, 737

Arnold, one, 27

Arnold's cr., 469

Arny, N. M., 634

Arrowsmith, Mr., xlii

arrows poisoned, 747

Arroyo del Espinazo, 616

Arroyo Hondo, 614, see Cua-kaa

Arroyo Seco, 654

Artaceoasa cr., 696

Arthur, Mo., 390

Arundinaria macrosperma, 561

Asbury, 5

Ascencion r., 771

Ashburn sta., Mo., 7

Ash cr., br. of Ark. r., 426, 433

Ash cr., br. of Mo. r., 366

Asherville, Kas., 408

Ash House, 278

Ashkibogi-sibi, 81

Ash r. of Pike, 363, 364, 366

Ashton cr., 6

Ashui, Zu√±ians' name of themselves

Asia, 641

Ask a Buggy Cuss, 169

Asp, a ship, lxxxiii

Aspidonectes ferox, 539

Assawa l., 162, 167, 335

Assawa Lake fk., 162

Assawe l., 162

Asseni-sipi is an old name of Rock r. in Ill.

Assiniboine Inds., 171, 255, 272, 347, 348, 354

Assiniboine r., 168, 254, 256, 322

Assinipoualak, see Assiniboine

Assumption of the B. V. M., 734

Assyrian, the, 631

Astecostota, Tex., 696

Astoria, 168

Astor, J. J., 76

astronomy, 604

Asturias, 674

Asuncion, Fray Juan de, or de Olmeda, see Nadal

Asuncion r., see Rio de la

Atascosa co., Tex., 696

Atascosa cr., 696

Atayos, 713

Atchafalaga bluff, 43

Atchipoue is a form of the word Ojibway or Chippewa

Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F√© R. R., 399, 404, 432, 434, 440, 441,
447, 448, 521, 550, 553, 619, 621, 626, 638, 731

Athapasca, 141

Athapasca l., 278

Athapascan stock, 697, 731, 735, 744, 746

Athapuscow, 141

Atkinson, Gen., 45

Atlantic and Pacific R. R., 621, 626, 731, 776

Atlantic ocean, xlv, 444, 522, 718, 720, 722, 724, 732, 746

Atlas, Ill., 7

Atlas isl., 7

Atlas l., 6

Atoyac r., in Mex., 721

Atoyac r., in Tex., 709, 710, 782

Atrisco, N. M., 619, 621, 625, 626, is most probably the place where
Pike met Dr. Robinson: see Pajarito, Tousac, and St. Fernandez, N. M.

Attila the Hun, 632

Aubray, Aubrey, preferably Aubry, Fran√ßois Xavier, 442, and delete the
query there. This is the famous Canadian French plainsman, b.
Maskinong√©, Dec. 4th, 1824, murdered at Santa F√©, N. M., by Maj. R. H.
Weightman, U. S. A., Aug. 20th, 1854: see Tass√©, II., 1878, pp.
179-227, best biography, with portrait. Aubrey City and Aubrey valley,
Ariz., 730, and Fort Aubray, Col., named for him

Aubry, French officer, 667

Auchinleck, lxxix

Audebee, C., 451

Audevies cr., 96

Au Canoe r. in Schoolcraft, 1820, for Cannon r. near L. Pepin, compare
Ocano r. and cr.

Au Fevre r. in Schoolcraft, 1820, for Fever or Galena r.

Auguelle, Antoine, 3, 13, 35, 64, 65, 70, 91

Augusta bend, 363

Augusta, Mo., 363

Auhaha r., 7

Aura, 688

Aurora, a newspaper, lxix, lxxxiv, xcix

Austin, Tex., 698, 704

Autobee, C., 451

Au Vasse, Auxvasse cr., 369

Au Vasse, Auxvasse r., 369

avena fatua, 38

Aveyron, France, 411

Avicu, 742

Awishinaubay, 31

Ayavois, Aye8ias, 22

Ayer, Rev. Mr. F., 125, 336

Ayoes, Ayoois, Ayooues, Ay8ay, Ayo8ois, Ayouez, 22

Azevedo, see Zu√±iga y


B

Baal, priests of, 41

Babaseekeendase, 134

Babbtown, Mo., 372

Babesigaundibay, Babikesundeba, 134

Babruly cr., 372

Baca co., Col., 442, 443

Baca Grant, N. M., 640

Bachimba, Mex., 667, 668

Back cr., 34

Backwater l., 147

Bacon, Judge Thos. W., preface, 8, 10

Bacorelli, 731, is traceable to Bucareli of Garcez, 1775-76, and
Puerto del Bacorelli corresponds to a part of the Grand Ca√±on of the
Colorado r. through Kaibab plateau, below the mouth of the Colorado
Chiquito

Bacuachi, 773

Bad Axe, battle of, 46, 338

Bad Axe bend, 49

Bad Axe r., 45, 48, 49, 338

Bad Axe, Wis., 49

badger, 96, 315, 432

Badger cr., 475

Badger sta., Col., 475

Bad Heart, a chf., 347

Bagatwa l., 150

Bagnell, Mo., 374, 375

Baie de Noc, 297

Baie Verte, 298, 299

Bailey's cr., 368

Bain, Jas., jr., preface

Bairdstown, Ky., 756

Bajada, 614

Bajan, Mex., 685

Baker cr., 401

Baker, Gen. J. H., 166, 167, 336

Baker's ferry, 97, over the Miss. r., between Dimick's isl. and Spring
rap.

Baker's trading house, 126, was near Camp Coldwater above Fort
Snelling

Bakinoa, 762

Bald isl., 73

Bald mt., Col., 493

Baldwin City, Kas., 519

Baldy mt., Col., 493

Baldy mt. or pk., N. M., 606, 736

Baldy pk., Col., 492

Ball Club l., 150, 322, 325

Ballenger, Sgt. J., 359, 360, 362, 375, 432, 547, 565, 568, 580, 587,
818, 845, 855

ball game, 207

Ball Game r., 51

balsam-fir, 132, 318, 320, 321

Balsam-fir l., 320

Baltimore co., Md., cxi

Baltimore, Md., cvii, 333, 656

Banfill, John, see Fridley

Bank of the Dead, 341

Bangs, Wm., 336

Banner, Kas., 403

Baraga, Rev., 102

Barego or Borages, Don, 687

Barelo, Capt., 670, 671, 673, 675, 676, 682, 694, 695, 712, 839

Barilla, 636

Barn bluff, Minn., 70, height as given there is by city survey of
1859; railroad levels make it 335 ft. above depot grounds

Barnesville, Kas., 395

Barney canal is between Miss. r. and Lake Peosta, at Dubuque, Ia.

Barn Hill, Mo., 12

Barn mt., Minn., 70, see Barn bluff

Barn, The, 205, 308, 356

Baroney, see Vasquez

Baroteran, Mex., 688

Barra de Santander, 724

Barral r., 670

Barr, a person, 709

Barre, Gov. de la, 72

Barrionuevo, Francisco de, on Coronado's expedition, discovered Taos
in 1541

Bar r. of Pike, 6, 7, 290, is identified with South Two Rivers by
Beck, Gaz., 1823, p. 316

Barrois, C√©leste, 388

Barroney, see Vasquez

Bartholomew, Mr., 609, 613, 614, 615, 807

Bartlett, J. R., 645

Barton, Capt. J. L., cviii

Barton co., Kas., 423, 424, 425, 433, 522

Barton co., Mo., 385

Baie Verte, see Baye, La. In 1785, it had about 55 pop. in 7 families,
in 1812 about 250 pop.

Bashier, Major, 692

Bas Lac aux C√®dres Rouges or du C√®dre Rouge, 135, 356

Bass brook, 147

Bassett's cr., 94

Bass l., near Minneapolis, Minn., 90

basswood, 315

Bastonnais, Bastonnaise, 188

Bastrop, Baron, 704

Bastrop, Tex., 704, 705

Batacoso, 773

Bates co., Mo., 370, 385, 390

Bates, Frederick, 10, 388

Bates' isl., 366

Bates, Moses D., 9

bathytaphy, 73

Baton Rouge, La., liv, 564

Batopilas, Batopilis, 762

battle, see names of battles

Battle cr. and isl., 45

Battleground, in Kas., 439

Battle rap., 98

Batton Rouge, 564

baugahudoway, 150

Bavbien, C., 607

Bavispe, Bavista, 771, 773

Bayard sta., Kas., 397

Bay City, Wis., 63

Bay cr., Ill., 6

Baye des Puans or Puants, 298

Baye, La, 298, 299

Baye Verde, 356

Bay of Puante, 68

Bay of the Holy Spirit, 444

Bayogoula, Bayoucogoula, _i. e._, people of the bayou, bayouc, or
bayouque; see N. Y. Nation, Nov. 15th, 1894

Bayou au Roi, 5

Bayou Bartholomew, 704

Bayou chute, 11

Bayou Lennan, 712

Bayou Pierre, 713

Bayou Roi, 5

Bayou St. Charles, 8, 10

Bayou San Miguel, 712

Bayou San Patricio, 712

Bay r. of Pike, 364, 365

Bay St. Charles, 9, 10

Bay Settlement, 129

Baxter sta., 129

Bazar, Kas., 401

Bean cr. is given in Beck's Gaz., 1823, p. 89, as a name of Rivi√®re au
F√®vre, _i. e._, Galena r.

Bean, Ellis, liii

Beans cr., N. M., 604

Bear r., br. of Fountain r., in Col., 452

Bear cr., br. of May cr., in Col., 492

Bear cr., br. of Miss. r., in Minn., 163

Bear cr., br. of Miss. r., in Mo., 8

Bear cr., br. of Osage r., in Mo., 373, 382, 383

Bear Creek ca√±on, 456

Bear Creek isl., 370

Bear cr. is Loose cr., 370

Bear cr. is Noir cr., 7, 290

Bear cr. is translation of Makoqueta cr., which see

Beard, Jack, 384

Beard, Mr., 437

Bear isl., 153, in Leech l.

Bear isl., 99, in Miss. r., Sect. 2, tp. 33, range 29, 4th M.

Bear pt., at Lake Itasca, 167, was named by Peter Turnbull in 1883

Bear r. is Loose cr., 370

Bear r., Utah, 738

Bear spr., N. M., 746

Beau or Beaux, a chf., 172, 173, 175, 189

Beautiful Bird, a chf., 384, 552, 591

Beaver, Col., 462

Beaver cr., br. of Ark. r., in Col., 462

Beaver cr., br. of Ark. r., Kaw Agency, 550

Beaver cr., br. of Osage r., 377, 378

Beaver depot, Col., 462

Beaver isl., Ia., 26

Beaver isl. is the largest (middle) one of the Coon isls., near Coon
cr., Anoka co., Minn.

Beaver isls. of Pike, 99, 192, 193

Beaver or Chabadeba r., 51

beavers, 99, 100

Beaver Tail, a person, 76

B√©casse, Beccasse, 84, 88

Becker co., Minn., 128, 164, 318

Beck's ferry, 638

Beck's Gazetteer, 3, 637, 532, 657

Beck's place, in Mo., 4

Beckwith, Lieut. E. G., 424, 433, 437, 439, 457, 491, 518, 520,
733, 734

Bedouins of Texas, 706

Beech's, Ill., 4

Beef l., 301

Beef r., 56, 58

Beef sl., 58, 60

Bed cr., 460

Beemis, Private, 332

Bega de Maraujo, 677

beggars, beggary, 790, 701

Behar, Bejar, see Bexar

Bekozino-sibi, 102

Belen, N. M., 629

Belle Fontaine cemetery, 357

Belle Fontaine cr., 357, 358

Belle Fontaine, Mo., lxii, 213, 214, 264, 271, 357, 358, 360, 365,
393, 420, 511, 539, 562, 565, 572, 573, 597, 845, 851

Belle Oiseau, see Bel Oiseau

Belle Prairie, Minn., 125

Bellerive, L. St. A. de, 214

Belle Roche, 375

Bellevue, Ia., 28

Bellevue sta., Col., 474

Bellevue tp., Minn., 102

Bellows, J., 734

Belleville, Tex., 691

Bel Oiseau, Belle Oiseau, a chf., and his son of same name, 383, 384,
409, 423, 551, 552, 591

Beloit, Kas., 421

Beloit, Wis., 24

Beltramian source of Miss. r., 157

Beltrami co., Minn., 159, 164, 329

Beltrami, J. C., 5, 14, 16, 18, 22, 26, 27, 28, 35, 36, 41, 43, 44,
49, 52, 54, 60, 66, 69, 70, 81, 84, 85, 86, 96, 97, 99, 100, 102, 103,
118, 122, 123, 124, 126, 127, 128, 132, 137, 138, 143, 144, 145, 150,
151, 159, 160, 192, 199, 204, 328, 329, 330, 332

Belvidere, Wis., 57

Bemejigemug, Bemidji, Bermiji l., 160, 161, 163, 331, the spelling
with B instead of P first made about 1866 by A. J. Hill at E. F. Ely's
suggestion

Bemidj-sibi, 289

Bench st., St. Paul, 75

Bend cr. of Nicollet, 99

Bender, Russia, 571

Ben√™t, Mr., 370

Benham's isl., 25

B√©nite, Bennet, Bennight, Benoit, Mr., 370

Bent co., Col., 443, 445, 447

Bent, Chas., 607

Bent, Mr., 446

Benton co., Ark., 558

Benton co., Minn., 101

Benton co., Mo., 371, 377, 380

Benton, Thos. H., 649

Bent's Fort, Col., 447

Bent's fort, old, 444, 446, 447

Bergamo, Italy, 328

Bergen, Wis., 49

Berger cr. or r., 365, 366

Berger's bottom, 365, 366

Berks co., Pa., cxi

Berlin, Ill., 26

Berlin, Wis., 301

Bermiji l., 161

Bermijo r., 558

Bernalillo co., N. M., 619, 629

Bernalillo, N. M., 616, 619, dates from 1701

Bernard, Col., 475

Bernicla canadensis, 89

Berosus, 182

Berthier, Minn., 326

Berti, Mr., 170

Beshaw cr., 385

Beson, Tex., 703

Bessel l., 151

Bessemer, Col., 452

B√™te Puante r., 18

Betsy sl., 57

Bexar co., Tex., 697

Bexar, Bexer, Bejar, Behar, San Antonio de, Tex., 697

Bible, 406

bibliography of Pike's books, xxxiii to l

Bicentenary, see Hennepin

Biedma, de, 288

Bienville, M. de, 77

Big Bay or Three Brothers, 8

Big Blue camp, 518, 519

Big Blue cr. or r., 518, 519

Big Buffalo cr., 377

Big Bull cr., 519

Big Burning, 335, is a tract denuded of wood by fire, E. of Lake
Itasca

Big Caney cr., 555

Big Coon cr., 518, 522

Big cr., br. of Cuivre r., 4

Big cr., br. of Grand r., Mo., 379

Big cr., see Big Stew cr.

Big cr., see North and South do.

Big Devil cr., 16

Big Duckett cr., 362

Big Eagle, a chf., 85

Big Eddy, in Miss. r., 131

Big falls or Sauk rap., 356

Big Foot, a chf., 556, 557

Big Foot, nickname of St. Denis, 714

Big Gravois cr., 374, 375

bighorn, 476

Big isl., 18, 210

Big John cr. and spr., 518, 521

Big Knives, 148

Big Manitou r., 391

Big Monegan or Monegaw cr., 385

Big Muddy r. of L. and C., 369

Big Nemaha r., 418

Big Osage Inds., see Grand do.

Big Pipe, a chf., 347

Big pt., in Leech l., 153

Big rap. or Sauk rap., 100

Big Rice l., on Boy r. connection, 155

Big Rice l., on Willow r. route, 320

Big River sl., 16

Big Rock cr., br. of Neosho r., 518, 521

Big Rock cr., br. of Osage r., 376

Big Rogue, a chf., 591

Big Rush cr., 27

Big Sand cr. of Gregg, 444

Big Sandy cr., br. of Ark. r., 442, 443

Big Sandy r., br. of Bill Williams' r., 730

Big Soldier, a chf., 370, 371, 527

Big Stew cr., 6

Big Stone l., 343, 344, 349

Big Suck-off, 41

Big Summer isl., 297

Big Tabeau cr., 379

Big Tavern cr., 369, 372

Big Timbers, 444

Big Track, a chf., 556

Big Turkey cr., 522

Big Walnut cr., 425, 426

Big Winnipeg or Winnibigoshish l., 322

Bijou cr., 451

Billon, F. L., 194, 204, 213

Billon's Annals, 39, 357, 388

Bill Williams' fk. of Colorado r., 730

Bill Williams' mt., 730, 731

Biogen Series, xxxii

Birch bay, 279

Birch l., 317

Bird cr., 555

Birth l., 128

Biscay, see New Biscay

Bishop of Rome, 80

Bissell, Capt. or Gen. D., 570, 603

Bissell, D., of Vt., 570

Bissell, H. W., 570

Bissell, L., 570

Bissell, R., 570

Bitch l., 124, 329

Bitch r., 124

Black Bear cr., 556

Blackbird isl., 7

Blackburn, E., liii

Blackburn sta., 483

Black Dog, a chf., 348

Black Eagle, a chf., 347

Black Hawk, a chf., 11, 45

Black Hawk co., Ia., 22

Black Hawk, Ia., 23

Black Hawk Purchase, 45

Black Hawk sl., 21

Black Hawk War, second, 45

Black Jack cr., 518, 519, 520

Black Jack, Kas., 519

Black Jack pt., 518, 519

black larch, 319

Blackman's Mills, 375

Black Mesa, 601

Black mts. or range, in N. M., 631, 747

Black r., 51, 52, 56, 58, 296, 305

Black River bay, civ

Black Rocks, Mex., 691

Blacksmith sl., 55

Black Soldier, a chf., 76

Black Squirrel cr., 451

blaireau, 432

Blair, F. P., 607

Blanchard, R., 554

Blanchard's isl., 22

Blanchard's rap., 104

Blanchette, the hunter, 214, 361

Blakely, Mr., 207

Bleak House, lxiii

Bledsoe co., Tenn., cxi

Blessed Virgin Mary, 289, 734

blockhouse on Ark. r., 481

blockhouse on Conejos r., 495, 496, 497

Blockhouse or post on Miss. r., 105, 106, 107

Blondeau, Mr., 32, 34, 211

Blood of Christ mts., 490

Bloody run, 37, 41

Bloomfield, Gov. J., lix

Blouin, Louis, 194

Blow Snake r. is translation of Ojibway name of Naiwa r.

Blueberry cr., 143

Blue cr., br. of Ark. r., 443, 444

Blue cr., br. of Gila r., 735

Blue Earth r., 65, 68, 77, 78, 79, 349

Blue, Maj. U., xxvi, xxviii

Blue Mound, Mo., 385, is in S. E. ¬º of Sect. 3, tp. 37, range 30

Blue Mounds, Cherokee country, 555

Blue Mound tp., Mo., 385

Blue mts. of Pike, 483

Blue or Blue Earth r., 78, 79

Blue r., in Ariz., 735

Blue r., in Col., 471

Blue Spirit, a chf., 343, 347, 349

Bluff cr., 518, 521

Bluff in the Water, 54

Bluff isl., 54

Bluffton, Mo., 368, 369

Blumenau, 487

Blummer, Chas., 607

Board of Honor, cviii

Bob, Bobb, Bobbs, Bobs cr., 4

Body of Christ cr., 707

Br√®che-dent, a chf., 351

Bodark r., 815

B[oe]ger cr., 365

B[oe]uf isl., 365

B[oe]uf l., 801

B[oe]uf qui Joue, a chf., 347

B[oe]uf qui Marche, a chf., 84, 88

B[oe]uf r., br. of Miss. r., 56, 58

B[oe]uf r., br. of Mo. r., 364, 365

Bofecillos mts., 642

Bog cr., 324

Bogottowa l., 150

Bogtown, Ill., 4

Bogus cr., 63

Boiling Spring r., 452

Boilvin, N., xxxiv, 292

bois blanc, 315

Boivin, N., xxxiv, 292

Boisbriant, P. D. de, 531

Bois Br√ªl√© cr., 372

Bois Br√ªl√© r., 71, 309

Bois Brulle, a chf., 347

Boley, Pvt. John, 1, 117, 142, 143, 144, 145, 174, 175, 359, 360, 432,
547, 845, 854, 855

Bolinger, Bollinger cr., 376

Bolson de Mapimi, 672, 673, 675, 676, 677, 678, 686, 762

Bolter's isl., 4

Bolvar, Mr., 292, may be Boivin or Boilvin, N.

Bonaparte, J., 576

Bonaparte, N., 381, 702, 805, 831

Bonasa umbellus, 97

Bon Fils sta., Mo., 361

Bon Homme, Mo., 57

Bon Homme r., 362

Bonito pueblo, 630

Bonnet du B[oe]uf, a chf., 591

Bonnet, Mr., 370

Bonpland, Aim√©, xli, xlii, 718, 792

Bon Secours l., 65

Bookoosaingegon in Schoolcraft, 1820, is Bras Cass√© or Broken Arm,
chf. of Sandy l.

Boom isl., 98, in Miss. r. at Monticello, Wright co., Minn., just
below the ferry

Boone, Daniel, 364, 367

Boone's Lick, 367, 570

Booneville, Col., 448, 451

Boon's Lick, see Boone's

Borages, Don, 687, see Barego

Borden, B. C., see Palmburg

Borgne, Le, a chf., 88

Bosquecito, Bosquecitos, N. M., 633

Bosquecito, N. M., lower, 640

Bosque del Apache, 633

Bosque de los Pinos, 621

Bosque, N. M., 629

Bosse, D., preface

Bostonian, 188

botany, 603

Bottom of the Lake, 356

Boucher, P. du, 65

Bouchette, lxxvi

Boulanger sl., 74

Boulder's isl., 4

Bourbon co., Kas., 394, 395, 396, 397

Bourbeuse cr., 364

Bourgne, see Borgne

Bousky, Bousquai, Bousquet, Mr. Chas., 139, was in Fond du Lac Dept.,
N. W. Co., in 1799

Boussant, 155

Boutwell cr., 167, named by Brower for next

Boutwell, Rev. W. T., 328, 331, 332, 334

Bouvet, Mathurin, 10

Bouvin, Mr., 139, compare Boivin or Boilvin

Bowdark r., 815

Bowditch l., 161, 162

Bowen, F., lxvi

Bowers, see Joe Bowers

Bowl, see Greater and Lesser Reservoir

Bowwood r., 815

Boy l., 155

Boynton's isl., 99

Boy or Boy's r., 153, 155, 156, 320, 334

Braba was a name of Taos in 1541

Braces r., 706, 707

Brackenridge's Travels, 361

Brackettville, Tex., 690

Braddock's defeat, 438, 531

Bradford, Col., 490, 491, 492

Bradley, Corp. or Sergt. Samuel, 1, 20, 54, 56, 108, 114, 115, 117,
124, 127, 128, 131, 136, 137, 138, 139, 172, 173, 177, 193, 359, 360,
372, 373, 401, 428, 432, 547, 845, 854, 855

Braggers, 345, 349

Brainerd, Minn., 129, 130, 131, 135, 177, 179, 318

Branches of the Vine, 777

Branden, Pvt. Peter, 1, 854

Brandy r., 96

Brannan, lxxix, lxxxiii, ci

Bras Cass√©, Bras Casse, Brasse Casse, a chf., 88, 338, 347

Brasses, Brassos r., Mex., 673, 678

Brasses, Brassos, Brassus r., Tex., lii, 678, 706, 707

Bravo r., 641, 642, 643, 644, see Rio Grande and Rio del Norte

Brazeau, Marie, 388

Brazito, battle and tract, 640

Brazos, Col., 596

Brazos pk., 597

Brazos r., Brazos de Dios r., lii, 560, 705, 706, 707, 779, 780, 781

Breche, Br√®che-dent, a chf., 176, 189, 190

Breck l., 166

brelau, brelaw, 96, 432

Brent's, N. M., 637

Brevoort, Capt. H. B., xxvi, xxviii, see also Michigan Pioneer
Collections, I. p. 373, VIII. p. 449

Bridge cr., 518

Bridgeport, Kas., 403, 404

Bridgeport, Mo., 366

Bridgeport, Wis., 38

Brigade order, Pike's, lxxx

Brisbois, Mr., 36

Briscoe, Pvt., 332

British generalities not indexed

British medals, 551

British sergeant killed, xc

Britt's ldg., 49

Brock, Gen., c

Brockman, Mo., 373

Brock's, Ill., 4

Brockway, Minn., 102

Broken Arm, a chf., 88, 338, 347

Broken Arrow sl., 50

Broken Gun channel, 52

Broken Teeth or Tooth, a chf., 134, 176, 347

Brook Luta, 402, 403

Brooks, officer of artillery, lxxx

Broolay, Stephen, 30

Brother Jonathan, 711

Brotherton, Mo., 361

Brouisseau, J. Le F. d'I. de, 214

Broul√© r., in Schoolcraft, 1855, see Bois Br√ªl√© r.

Brower, Hon. J. V., preface, 101, 105, 158, 159, 160, 163, 164, 165,
166, 167, 288, 326, 328, 331, 332, 336

Brower isl., in Hernando de Soto l., named by a committee consisting
of Capt. R. Blakely, Mr. Chas. D. Elfelt, and Hon. I. V. D. Heard, for
Hon. J. V. Brower

Brower ridge, 165, 166

Brower r. is the name I have given to that stream which flows into
Lake Winnibigoshish and is commonly reckoned as III. or Third r.,
which see: see also Annals of Iowa for Apr., 1895, p. 22

Brown ca√±on, 472

Brown Ca√±on sta., Col., 472

Brown, Clara or Clarissa, xxx, xxxiii

Brown co., Ind., cxi

Brown co., Wis., 298, 299

Brown, Browne, Dr. Jos., 388, 579

Brown, Gen. John, xxx, xxxiii, lix

Browning, Hon. D. M., preface

Brown, John, 394

Brown, Pvt. John, 1, 115, 359, 360, 373, 432, 454, 457, 476, 482, 488,
489, 490, 510, 845, 854, 855

Brown's cr., br. of Ark. r., 472

Brown's cr., br. of Miss. r., 90

Brown's fall, 90, 92

Brown's isl., 98

Brownsville, Minn., 49, 206

Brownsville, N. Y., lxxxii

Br√ªl√© I., 153, 155

Brunet, F., 334, 335

Bruno cr., 401

Brusha for Br√®che-dent, 176

Brush cr., 519

Brush Hollow cr., 462

Brushy cr., 559

Brushy Mound, see Timbered Hill

Bruske, Brusk√©, Brusky, Chas., 139

Brusl√©, √âtienne, 30

Bryan, F. T., 645

Bryan, Guy, 602

Bryant, Hon. C. S., 88

Bryant's cr., 5

Buade, L. de Frontenac de, 294

Buade l., 91, 95, 313

Buade r., 289

Bucanieus, La Touche de la Cote, 423

Bucareli, see Bacorelli. Gen. Antonio Maria Bucareli y Urzua, b.
Seville, Jan. 24th, 1717, d. at Mexico Apr. 9th, 1779, was 1760-71
Governor of Cuba, and 1771 to death Viceroy of New Spain

Bucasse, a chf., 88

Buck, a chf., 156, 157, 172, 173, 175, 189; Schoolcraft, 1855, p. 444,
calls him Iaba Waddik

Buck cr., Ia., 34

Buck cr., or Suicide cr., 556

Buck cr., Wis., 41

Buck cr., Wis., another, 42

Buckeye cr., 381

Bucklin, Kas., 437

Buckman, Geo. R., preface

Buckman Hotel, Little Falls, Minn., 123

Buckner's cr., 429

Bucks, a chf., see Buck

Bucks co., Pa., xx, 602, 656

Budd and Bartram, 656

Buenacus r., 703

Buenaventura, Mex., 653

Buenaventura r., 733

Buena Vista, battle of, xix, 760

Buena Vista, Col., 469, 470, 471

Buenavista, Sonora, 773

Buenos Aires, 739

buffalo, passim, for example, 58, 426, 427, 428, 429, 433, 434, 438,
439, 440, 441, 472, 473, etc.

Buffalo buttes, N. M., 597

Buffalo City, Wis., 57

Buffalo co., Wis., 55

Buffalo cr., br. of Little Platte r., 468

Buffalo cr., br. of Miss. r., in Minn., of Pike, 103, 110

Buffalo cr., br. of Miss. r., in Minn., being first one below
Brainerd, on the E., mouth in Sect. 3, tp. 44, range 31, 4th M.

Buffalo cr., br. of Miss. r., in Mo., or Pike's Bar r., 7, 290

Buffalo cr., br. of Republican r., 404, 405, 408, 420

Buffalo crs., see Big and Little

Buffalo, Ia., 23, 24

Buffalo isl. in Miss. r., 7

Buffalo isl. in Mo. r., 365

Buffalo l., 301, 302

Buffalo, Buffaloe r., br. of Miss. r., in Mo., 4, 355

Buffalo, Buffaloe r., br. of Miss. r., in Wis., 55, 56, 58, 59, 65,
290, 305

Buffalo r., br. of Mo. r., 365

Builder of Towns, a chf., 557

Bukesagidowag r., 152

Bullard's cr., 64, 69. Bullard was the trader who settled at Red Wing
in 1850 and laid out the town

Bull cr., 518, 519

Bungo, Wm., 336

Bunting, Rev. O. S., preface, civ, cv

Burch, Capt. D. E., cix

Bureau of Ethnology, 238

Bureau of Indian Affairs, 238

Burger, Caspar, 365

Burger's cr. and bottom, 365

Burgwin, Capt. J. H. K., 606

burial, burying-ground, 73

Burke, Pvt., 332

Burlingame, Kas., 520

Burling, Mr., 662

Burlington bluffs, 18, 19

Burlington, Ia., 18, 19

Burlington isl., 18

Burlington, Kas., 399

Burlington, Vt., cviii

Burnet's Notes N. W. Terr., 438

Burnett co., Wis., 72

Burnt, a chf., 156, 347

Burnt isl., 356

Burnt, Burntwood r., 308, 309, 310

Burr, Aaron, lv, lvi, 500, 501, 504, 652, 692, 826, 836

Burris cr. and valley, 55

Burr's Pass, 638

Busard Blanc, 89

Businause, 134

Bustamente, Mex., 670

bustard, 89

But, see Butte

Butler, Capt. E., xxviii

Butler co., Kas., 549

Butler, J. D., 40

Butte de Mort, des Morts, 300, 301, 341, 356

Butte des Morts l., 300, 301, 340

Butte d'Hyvernement, 51, 52, 53, 54


C

Caballo Cone, 637

Caballos mts., 635

Cabaso, Father J. A., 703, 708

Cabe√ßa de Vaca, 713

Caberairi, Caberarie, Cabrera, Don A., 660, 661, 662

Caberairi, Se√±ora M. C., 659

Caberet's isl., 1

Cabezua, see Jabezua r.

cabrie, 399, 653, 738, 772

Cache cr., in Ark., 559

Cache cr., in Col., 471

caches, 437, 439, 535

Caddo, see Caddoan Inds.

Caddoa, Col., 443

Caddoa cr., 443, 444

Caddoan bluffs, 443

Caddoan Inds., Caddoes, 412, 526, 557, 591, 706, 708, 711, 713

Caddodaquis, 714

Caddy cr., 371

Cadena, Mex., 674

Cadena pass, 674, 675

Cadillac, A. de la M., 714

Cadiwabida, 176

Cadiz, 660, 702

C√¶sar, a negro, 666

Cahagatonga, 527, 591, council name of Osage chf., Cheveux Blancs or
White Hair, said to mean Big Ice

Cahokia, Ill., 206, 602

Cahokias, 339

Caigua is same word as Kiowa

Cajuenche was a tribe of Yuman Inds., called Cojuenchis on Pike's map

Calhoun co., Ill., 3, 4, 5

Calhoun, J. C., 83

Calhoun l., 90

Calhoun pt., 3

Caliente cr., 597, 598, 600

California, cxi, cxii, 446, 641, 645, 719, 725, 727, 728, 729, 733,
734, 735, 736, 742, 746, 770, 773

Callaway, Capt. Jas., 367

Callaway co., Mo., 368, 369

Callejito spr., 653

Calumet co., Wis., 300, 301

Calumet cr., 6

Calvinistic Creator, 332

Camanche, Ia., 27

Camanche Inds., 536, 563, 565, 566, 590, 706, and see Comanches

Camargo, Mex., 692

Camden, lvi

Camden co., Mo., 371, 374, 375, 376

Camden, Ill., 3

Cameron Cone, 456

Cameron, Mr. M., 66, 67, 70, 82, 86, 202, 208, 238

Camino a Senora, 651, 653

Camino de Monasterio, Camion de Monaseo, 670

Campagnoni, Comtesse de, 328, 330

Camp Allegheny, xxiv, xxvi

Camp Apache, 748

Campbell, Archibald, 25

Camp Belle Fontaine, lxii

Campbell, Mr., of Nicollet, 200

Campbell, Mr., of Pike, was John Campbell, 206, 207, 211, 269

Campbell, R. B., 645

Campbell's isl. and chain, 25

Camp Coldwater, 83. An undated military map in MS., in the Minn. Hist.
Soc., marks it in a sort of cove opp. the head of the first island
above Fort St. Anthony. Lieut. Douglas' Historical Rep., dated Dec.
4th, 1879, says this camp was at a spring near the old trading house

Camp cr., br. of Miss. r., 18

Camp cr., br. of Vermilion r., 400

Campeche, 718

Camp Hualapais, 736

Camp Independence, 386, 388, 390, 392, 393, 396, 577

Camp Osage, 518, 522

Camp Price, 736

Camp St. Peter's, 83

Camp Terre au B[oe]uf, lxiv

Canabe, Canabi, 742

Canada, xxvi, lxxvi, 229, 558, and passim

Ca√±ada Alamosa, 637

Ca√±ada cr., N. M., 605

Canada grouse, 175

Ca√±ada, N. M., 598

Ca√±ada r., 558, 606

Canadian Institute, 168, 278

Canadian oats or rice, 38

Canadian or Ca√±adiano r., xlvii, 437, 552, 558, 559, 606, 705

Canal, Eureka Irrigating, 434

canals, see acequias

Canary isls., 461, 701

Cances, 706, see Kanzes

Candelaria, Mex., 650

Candelaria, N. M., 619

cane, a plant, 561

Cane or Caney cr., 556

Caney r., 555

Cannon r., 50, 62, 67, 68, 69, 70, 73, 205, 308, 309, 348, 349, 356

Cano, Canoe, Canot r., near Lake Itasca, 163, see Chemaun r.

Cano, Canoe, Canon, Canot r., see Cannon r.

canoe-men, 286

canoe voyage to Lake Itasca, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167

Ca√±on City, Col., 359, 360, 462, 463, 464, 465, 466, 469, 472, 475,
476, 479, 480, 481, 482, 483, 642, 847

Ca√±on de Chaca, Chasco, 632

Ca√±on de Chelly, 731

Ca√±on of Colorado r., 730, 731, see Grand Ca√±on

Ca√±on or Canadian r., 558

Canon or Canot r., see Cannon r.

Canton chute, 12

Canton, Kas., 403, 521

Cantonment Washington, lxv

Cantonment Belle Fontaine, 213, 357, 358, 360, and see Belle Fontaine

Cantonment Davis, 14

Cantonment Missouri, 573, see Belle Fontaine

Cantonment St. Peter's, see New Hope

Canton, Mo., 11, 12

Cap √† l'Ail, √† l'Ail Sauvage, 42, 43

Cap au Grais, Gre, Gr√®s, Gris, 4, 5

Cape Galena, 375

Cape Garlic, 42, 43

Cape Garlic r., 42

Cape Girardeau, 710

Cape Gray, 5

Cape Jerardeau, 710

Cape Puant, 43

Cape Tepoca, 771

Cape Winnebago, 42, 43

Cape Winnebago cr. or r., 42, 43

Capilla pk., 629

Capitan mt., 631

Capitol Hill, lxiii

capitulation of York, ciii

Capoli, 42

Capoli bluff and cr., 43

capot, capote, 835

Cap Puant, 43

Captain cr., 519

Caquina, 742, name appears as Caquima in 1680, Vetancurt, Teatro
Mexicano; see Cequimas

caravan road, route, or trail, 401, 424, 425, 429, 433, 517, 518, 519,
520, 521, 522

Carbunker's pt., 360

Cardenas, Garcia Lopez de, was sent by Coronado from Cibola to the
Colorado r., summer of 1540

Cardinal r., 377, 378

Carey, H. C., and Hart, 553

Carle's isl., 6

Carlisle, Pa., 748

Carlisle spr., Col., 460

Carlos IV., 794

Carlton, Col., 442, 443

Carlton, Kas., 403, 404

Carmen r., 651, 652

Carmen sta., Mex., 652

Carnage r., 163

Car of Commerce bend, 360

Carondelet, Baron de, 657

Carondelet, Mo., 215

Carracal, Carrizal, Mex., 650, 651, 652, 767, 770

Carracal r., 650

Carrizal, Mex., 767, 770

Carrizalillo, 646

Carrizo mts., 631

Carrizo spr., 695

Carrizo, Tex., 691

Carroll co., Ill., 27, 28

Carroll or Corral cr., 475

Carroll's isl., 6

Carron, Thomas, 180, 184, 347

Carson, Christopher, 446

Carte du Canada, 71

Carter, Pvt. Jacob, 1, 359, 360, 432, 482, 490, 509, 510, 845, 850,
854, 855

Carver, Capt. Jonathan, 35, 59, 60, 61, 65, 77, 80, 81, 92, 94, 95,
96, 97, 198, 199, 200, 201, 205, 236, 295, 306, 309, 313, 314, 315,
338

Carver's cave, 75, 198, 199, 200, 201

Carver's Terrace, 60, 61

Casa Calva, Marques de, 661

Casa Colorada, N. M., 629

Casa Grande, Ariz., 734, 741, 742

Cascade ca√±on and road, 456

Cascade, Col., 456

Cascade cr., 90

Casey, Gen. T. L., preface

Casey's isls., 94

Cashesagra, 556, 557, 558

Cash's isl., reference lost

Caso, Cassa Calva, Casso Calvo, Marquis of, 612, 661, 816

Cassa Yrujo, Marquis de, 815

Cass co., Minn., 128, 130

Casse-Fusils channel, 52

Cass, Gov. Lewis, 36, 83, 134, 137, 157, 158, 159, 199, 327, 330, 333,
358

Cassina l., 157, 158, 327

Cassina r., 289

Cass l., xlviii, cx, 135, 152, 153, 157, 158, 159, 160, 167, 168, 173,
263, 322, 323, 324, 327, 328, 329, 330, 335

Cass r., 159, 289

Cassville sl., 34

Cassville, Wis., 32, 34

Casta√±eda, Piedro, chronicler of Coronado's expedition, 1540-42, his
work first pub. in French in 1838

Casta√±uela, Mex., 683

Casti's courtiers, 330

Castle of San Juan, 722

Castroville, Tex., 690, 697

casualties at York, xci

Catalonian, 654

Cataract ca√±on, 731, 736

Catarractes, see Saltus Astiaius

Catawabata, Catawabeta, 176, 347, 351

Catfish cr., 32, 209, 294

Catfish isl., 362

Catholic Block, St. Paul, 75

Catholic religion, 663

Catlin, Col., 448

Catlin, Geo., 14

Catskill, N. Y., 405

Cattail cr., 27

cattle barons or kings, 704

cavalry, Spanish, 795

Cave cr., 379

Cavelier, J., 779

Cavelier, R., 779, 780, see La Salle

caves, 198, 199, 200, 201, 363

Cave Treaty, 201

Cawree, Cawrees, 343

Cayman l., 673, 762

Cayome, liii

Cayone, 770

Cazaguaguagine-sibi, 151

Cebola, 742

Cebolleta, N. M., 619, 630

Cebolletita, N. M., 630

cedar, 157

Cedar co., Mo., 384, 385

Cedar cr., Ill., 27

Cedar cr., Kas., 519

Cedar cr., Minn., 53

Cedar cr., see Lower Red Cedar r.

Cedar Falls, Ia., 22

Cedar Grove, Kas., 401

Cedar isl., 98

Cedar l., see Upper and Lower Red

Cedar Lake sta., Minn., 135

Cedar Point, Kas., 401

Cedar rap., Fox r., 300

Cedar rap., Miss. r., 98

Cedar Rapids, Ia., 22

Cedar r., 175, see Lower Red

Center sl., 41

Century Cyclopedia, 737, 745, 756

Century Dictionary, 39, 101, 204

Cequimas, 630. Mr. F. W. Hodge of U. S. Bureau of Ethnology identifies
the place so marked on Pike's map as the Cibolan pueblo of Kiakima or
Kyakima, not Acoma, as my text says. What text gives of Acoma is not
thereby affected in other respects. See also Caquina

Cerro Blanco, 492, 493

Cerro Chifle, 598

Cerro Cristobal, 598

Cerro Cuchillo Negro, 639

Cerro Gordo, battle of, 673

Cerro Gordo cr. or r., 672, 673

Cerro Gordo, Mex., 673

Cerro Magdalen, 638, 639

Cerro Manzano, 631

Cerro Montoso, 598

Cerro Montoso, another, 629, 631

Cerro Olla, 598

Cerro Orejas, 598

Cerro Robledo, 638, 639

Cerro San Antonio, 597

Cerro San Pascual, 639

Cerro Taoses, 598

certificate, Allencaster to Pike, 809

certificate, Bloomfield's, lix

certificate of papers seized, 817, 818, 819, 820

Cevilleta Grant, 628

Cevola is Cibola

Chaas, 35

Chabadeba, Chabaoudeba, Chabedeba r., 51

Chacat, 630, 743

Chacito r., 614

Chacktaws, 526

Chaco ca√±on, people, and r., 630, 731

Chactaws, 557, 560, 591

Chaffee co., Col., 469, 471

Chagouamikon bay, 296

Chahpahsintay, 76

Chalcedony buttes, 462

Chaldeans, 182

Chalk cr., 469, 472

Chama, N. M., 601

Chama r., 597, 600, 601, 604, 629

Chamberino, N. M., 640

Chambers' bay, named by Brower for Julius Chambers

Chambers, Col. T., 358

Chambers' cr., 166, 167

Chambers isl., 298

Chambers, Julius, 166, 167, 336, see New York Herald, June and July,
1872, especially July 6

Chambers, Mr., 437

chameleon, 431

Chamita, N. M., at confluence of Rio Chama with Rio Grande, on site of
old pueblo Yunque or Yuque Yunque

Chamois, Mo., 368, 369

Champanage, 347

Champlain frontier, district, xxiii, lxxii, lxxxv, and see Lake

Champlain's Hundred Associates, 31

Chancery, lxiii

Chandler cr., 462

Chandler, John, lxxi

Chanpoksamde, 58

Chantaoeteka, 347

Chantapeta, 349

Chapala l., 720

chaparral, 671

Chapetones, 738, 739

Chaporanga, 591

Chaquamegon bay, 80, 296

Characterish, 409, 414, 542, 543, 544, 551, 591

Charbonnier isl. and pt., 361

Charcoal, Col., 469

Charette bend, 365

Charette, La Charette, Mo., 361, 363, 364, 512, 568, 572

Charette's cr. and village, 361

Charez cr., 424, 518

Charger, a chf., 349

Charles IV., 214, 711, 804

Charles bayou, 8

Charles r., 451

Charles Scribner's Sons, xlviii

Charlestown, Ia., 27

Charlevoix, P. F. X. de, 77, 79

Chartres, Duc de, 531

Chartron, Mr., 364

charqui, 798

Chasco ca√±on and r., 630, 731

Chase co., Kas., 395, 400, 401

Chase, Kas., 424

Chaska, Minn., 342

Chasseb[oe]uf, C. F., 154

chasseurs du bois, 513

Chatamutah, 342

Chatanwakoowamani, Chatewaconamani, 85, 342, 347, and see Chet-

Chauncey, Comm. I., lxxiii, lxxix, ixxx, lxxxiii, xcviii, ci, ciii

Chavez, A. J., 424, 621

Chavez cr., 424, 518

Chavez, Don M., 621

Chavez map, 288

Chavez, N. M., 626

Chea, 745

Chef de la Terre, 172, 260, 346

Chein Blanche, 187

Chekakou, 68

Chelly ca√±on, 731

Chemaun r., 163. This Chippewa name was used by Schoolcraft in 1855,
and is adopted by Brower and myself for this river

Chemehuevis, 735, 744

Chemequaba, 731, 735

Chenal √† Loutre, 366

Chenal √âcart√©, 6, and see snicarty

chenegay is said to be a corruption of Sp. cienega. The word exists,
but the alleged derivation is dubious

Cheney cr., 15

Chen hyperboreus, 89

Chenire, Ia., 28

Cheniers, M. and A., 139

Chenowagesic l., 162, named for a Leech Lake Chippewa in 1881

Chenoway's son, 347

Cherokee country, 397, 555, 558, 559

Cherokee co., Kas., 397

Cherokee fort, old, 657

Cherokee Inds., 526, 557, 591, 594

Cherokee trail, old, 448, 451

Cherry cr., 448

Cherry l. is among the names of Lake Erie

Chesapeake, frigate, cv, cvii

Chesnaye, A. de la, 313

Chester co., Pa., cx

Chesterfield, Lord, xxxi

Chetanwakoamene, 74, 85, 348, and see Chat-

Chetho Kette, 630

Cheveu Blanc, Cheveux Blanc, Cheveux Blanche, Cheveux Blancs, 375,
382, 387, 389, 390, 391, 392, 527, 558, 577, 578, 581, 582, 591

Chevr√©uil r. in Schoolcraft, 1820, is a name of Deer r., Itasco co.,
Minn.

Chewawa, 683, see Chihuahua

Chewitt, Lt. Col. W., ciii

Chewokmen, Chewokomen, 148

Cheyenne bottoms, Kas., 424, 425, 517

Cheyenne co., Col., 443

Cheyenne co., Kas., 410

Cheyenne cr., Col., 442, and see North and South

Cheyenne Inds., 435

Cheyenne mt. or pk., 454, 455, 456

Cheyenne r., 343

Chia, 745

Chiapa, Chiapas, 718, 721, 722, 726

Chicago and Alton R. R., 7

Chicago and Northwestern R. R., 27

Chicago, Burlington, and Northern R. R., 54

Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy R. R., 7, 9, 19, 36

Chicago, Dubuque, and Minneapolis R. R., 41

Chicago, Ill., 3

Chicago, Kansas, and Nebraska R. R., 402, 437, 521

Chicago, Milwaukee, and St. Paul R. R., 27, 37, 74, 302

Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific R. R., 24, 44

Chickasaw bluffs, 657

Chickasaw Inds., 526, 591

Chico cr., 451

Chico, Kas., 403

Chico sta., Col., 451

Chief Himself, a chf., 591

Chief of the Land, a chf., 172, 347

Chien Blanc, Chien Blanche, Chienne Blanche, 121, 187, 189

Chienne r., 343

Chifle mt., 598

Chigomi l., 331

Chihuahua City, xlvii, lii, liii, liv, 411, 414, 536, 610, 611, 625,
626, 628, 634, 648, 649, 650, 653, 654, 655 and to 667, 669, 671, 690,
695, 713, 759, 760, 761, 764, 765, 766, 767, 769, 770, 771, 787, 808,
809, 810, 812, 813, 820, 822, 823, 828, 829, 831, 837, 838, 851

Chihuahua State, 640, 641, 648, 669, 673, 674, 675, 677, 678, 681,
719, 726, 742, 759, 762, 770, 774, 775

Chihuahua r., 765

chile colorado, 798

Chili, N. M., 601

Chillpecker cr., 164

Chilocco, Chilocky cr., 550

Chimayo settlements, 605

Chimborazo, 641

Chimney butte, 744

Chimney rock, 57

Chimoguemon, 148

China, xxxi, 804

Chingouab√©, 77

Chinook, 188

Chino valley, 730

Chipeway Inds., xcv, 346, 347, and see Chipp-

Chipeway r., 60, 350, 355, and see Chipp-

Chipeway, Travers, or Pemidji l. appears on Nicollet's orig. map

Chippewa, battle of, lxxxi

Chippewa, City of, in Harper's Mag., XIX., 1859, pp. 50, 51, is
Ojibway, Minn., which see

Chippewa Inds., throughout Pt. 1, esp. 30, 31, 83, 310, 350, 352, 353,
354, and see Chipe- and Ojib-

Chippewa, Chippewa r., br. of Miss. r., 35, 56, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62,
63, 78, 296, 305, 306, 348

Chippewa r., br. of Minn. r., 316

Chippewa-Sioux boundary, 310

Chiricahua Apaches, 748

Chiricahua mts., 644

Chisago co., Minn., 309

Chivola is Cibola

Chocktaw country, 559

Choctaw Inds., 713

Choteau, see Chouteau

Chouagen, lxxv

Chouart, M., 295

Choumans, 412

Chouteau, A., senior, 213, 215

Chouteau, C., 393

Chouteau, G., 292

Chouteau, Mrs. A., 213

Chouteau, P., 222, 241, 242, 333, 381, 384, 514, 529, 530, 550, 551,
557, 558, 568, 559, 576, 579

Chouteau's fort on Osage r., 384, 385

Chouteau's isl., Ark. r., 440

Chouteau's isl., Miss. r., 1

Christ, 764, 801, and see Body and Blood of

Christianity, Christian religion, Christians, 182, 599, 663, 753, 768

Christy, lxxix

Chtoka, 531, qu. Chetopa?

Chucagua, 288

Chuchacas, Chuchachas, 745

Chumpa on some maps is Cumpa

Chupadera mesa, 631

churches of Chihuahua, 764, 765, 766

Churchville, Ia., 14

Chusco is Chasco and Chaco

Chusco r., 731

Chute de la Roche Peinte, 123, 316

Cia, 604, 605, 745, was a large pueblo till after the revolt of 1680

Cibola, Seven Cities of, 630, 742

Cibolleta, N. M., 628

Cibolo r., 697, 703

Cicuique, Cicuye, 737

Cienega Apache, 637

Cienega Grande, Hacienda de, 682

Cienega, N. M., see Vitior

Cieneguilla, N. M., 614, see Tziguma and Vitior

Cilla, 745

Cimarone r., 552, 554

cimarron, 438

Cimarron, Kas., 437, 438, 439

Cimarron r., 438, 552, 553, 554, 555, 556, 705

Cimarron r., or Salt fk. of Ark. r., 552, 553, 554

Cimarron route, 426, 439

Cimmaron r., see Cimarron r.

Cinaloa, 774

Cincinnati, Ill., 7

Cincinnati ldg., 7, 8

Cincinnati, O., xxvi, xxxi, 446, 836

Cincinnati, Wis., 34

Cincinnatti, O., 836

Cinyumuh, 744

Cioux, 313, see Sioux

Cistus creticus, 494

Cities of Cibola, 630, 742

City of the Pines, 130

City of Vera Cruz, 722

Ciudad Juarez, 641

Ciudad Porfirio Diaz, 691

Ciudad Victoria, 724

Civil War, 634

civilized Indians, 752, 753

Civola is Cibola

Civona is Cibola

Claflin, Kas., 424

Claiborne, Gen. F. L., xxvi, xxvii

Claiborne, Gen. W. C. C., 660

Clark co., Mo., 12, 13, 14

Clark co., Wis., 52

Clarke co., Kas., 556

Clarke cr., at Lake Itasca, named by Brower for Hopewell Clarke

Clarke, Hopewell, 167, 336

Clarke l., at Lake Itasca, named by A. J. Hill for Hopewell Clarke

Clarke pool, at Lake Itasca, named by Brower for Hopewell Clarke

Clark, Geo. R., xcviii

Clarksville isl., 6

Clarksville, Mo., 6

Clark, W., xxviii, cxiii, 10, 30, 36, 57, 60, 87, 134, 291, 292, 330,
357, 361, 734, and see Lewis and

Clark, Wm. H., 36

Clavigero, F. X., xli

Clay co., Kas., 410

Clay cr., 443

Clayton co., Ia., 34, 38, 304

Clayton, Ia., 34

Clear cr., br. of Cottonwood r., 401, 402, 521

Clear cr., br. of Miss. r., 43

Clear cr., br. of Osage r., 385

Clear or Clear Water r., 56, 57

Clear or Platte r., 101, 102, 103, 111, 112, 116, 192, 193, 315, 316

Clear Water cr. in Wis., 63

Clear Water, Minn., 98, 99

Clear Water or Minneiska r., 57, 355

Clear-water r. appears in Schoolcraft, 1820, for Minn. r.

Clear Water r., bet. Wright and Stearns cos., Minn., 99, 193

Clemson, Capt., lxii, 367

clerks, 286

Clermont, a chf., 557, 558

Clifton, Ill., 2

Clinch, Gen., lxxxvii

Clinton co., Ia., 26, 37, 224

Clinton, Dewitt C., 27

Clinton, Ia., 27

Clinton's r. is Chemaun cr.

Cloquet isl., 96

Cloud co., Kas., 410

Clouquet isl., 96

Cluses, Savoy, 333

Coahuila, xli, liii, 648, 673, 675, 678, 679, 682, 689, 690, 692, 696,
697, 719, 723, 724, 725, 726, 759, 762, 775, 776, 777, 778

Coahuila de Zaragoza, 775

Coal Camp cr., 377, 378

Coal cr., 462

Cobero, see Covero

Cocculus indicus, 283

Cochetope pass, 596

Cochiti, N. M., 606, 745

cochmelies, 613

Cockalin portage, 347

Cockien, 299

Cock isl., 6

Cocklebur sl., 6

Cocolo, 299

Cocomaricopas, 735

Cocopas, 735, 736

C[oe]ur du Killeur Rouge, 347

C[oe]ur Mauvais, 347

Coffey co., Kas., 395, 399

Cogquilla, Cogquillo, 668, 678, 686, 697, 701, 724, 725, 727, 729, 747,
752, 759, 762, 775, 777, 778, 779, 780, 781, and see Coahuila

Cog Railway, 456

Cohahuila, 673, 775, see Coahuila

Cohasset, 145, 147

Cohonino, see Cosnino

coinage, 792

cojinillos, 613

Cojnino ca√±on, 731, 736, and see Cosnino

Cojuenchis, 735, and see Cajuenche

Colbertia, Colbertie, is a former name of the whole Miss. r. region

Colbert r., 289, 295

Colcaspi isl., 157, 158

Cold cr., 696

Cold r. of Carver, 102

Cold Water cr., 357, 358

Cole Camp cr., 377, 378

Cole co., Mo., 371, 372

Cole cr., 520

Coleman, N. M., 638

Cole's or Coles' cr., 367

Colerado r., 706, see Colorado r.

Colima, Mex., 718, 719

Collen or Colly ford, 385

colluvies gentium, 705

Colly, S., liii, 609, 613

Colonia, Mex., 677

Colorado basin, 732

Colorado Chiquito r., 630, 731, named Rio Colorado by O√±ate in 1604

Colorado City, Col., 452

Colorado College, xlix

Colorado Grande r., 630, 744

Colorado Midland R. R., 467, 468, 469, 470, 471

Colorado, N. M., 638

Colorado River Agency, 736

Colorado r., of Cal., 522, 523, 524, 622, 623, 630, 644, 645, 646,
647, 730, 731, 732, 733, 734, 735, 736, 770, discovered by Alarcon
Aug. 26th, 1540, visited in 1540 by Cardenas from Cibola, visited 1541
by Melchior Diaz, who called it Rio del Tizon, visited 1604 by Juan de
O√±ate, who called it Rio Grande de Buena Esperanza

Colorado r., of Tex., 696, 698, 704, 705, 780, 781

Colorado r., of the East, 558, 705, 815, 816

Colorado r., of the West, xlv, xlviii, 645, 705, see Col. r. of Cal.

Colorado river-system, 730, 731, 732

Colorado Springs, Col., xlix, cxii, 452, 453, 454, 456, 467

Colorado State, xlviii, cxiii, 441, and continuously to 510, also 595,
596, 597, 732, 746, 822

Columbia co., Wis., 302

Columbia r., 168, 642, 727

Comanche co., Kas., 556

Comanche Inds., xlvii, 407, 412, 435, 459, 468, 571, 706, 737, 743,
744, 746, see Camanche Inds. and Tetans

Comanche, Ia., 27

Comanche res., 412

Comanche sl., 26

Comandes, 412, see Comanches

Commerce, Ill., 15

commerce of New Spain, 739, 766, 791

commerce of the Miss. r., 274

communal houses, 741

Company of the West, 531

compass stolen, 694

Compostela, Mex., 720

Conception r., 289

Concho, Mex., 669

Conchos basin and r., 642, 668, 669, 670, 673, 762, 765

Conchos, Mex., 770

Cond√©, 44

Cond√© l., 71, 310

Conde, Mexican Commissioner, 644

Conejos co., Col., 596

Conejos, Col., 596, 597

Conejos, Durango, 674

Conejos pk., 494

Conejos r., xlvi, 495, 496, 497, 499, 502, 596, 622, 641, 816, 848,
855

Conejos r., error for Chama r., 600

Cone mt., 736

Confederates, 560

conferences, 221, 266, 267

Congress, xxix, xxxiv, lvi, lvii, lxii, lxiv, lxxxi, cvii, 81, 237,
647, 704, 705, 827, 840, 841, 851

Congress water, 452

Connecticut, xxvii, liii, 570, 711, 715

Connecticut Herald, lxix

Conner, Maj. S. S., ciii

Conquest, a ship, lxxxiii

Conradi, read Conrad's shoals, 125, mistake of the engineer's chart

Conrad, Lucas and Co., lxi

conspiracy of Indians, 768

Constancia, N. M., 629

Constantine, Emperor, 71

Contadero, N. M., 634, 635, 636

Continental Divide, xlv, 466, 467, 468, 469, 471, 479, 483, 637

Conurus carolinensis, 474

Conway, Thos., lvi

Cook, Capt., 53

Cooke, P. St. G., 637, 639

Cooke, Prof., 336

Cooke's range, 638

Cooke trail, 639

Coolidge, Kas., 441

Cooley, see Colly

Coon cr., Ia., 43

Coon cr., Kas., 434, 435, see Big and Little

Coon cr., Minn., 94, 101

Coon cr., Wis., 49

Coon isl., 6

Coon's hacienda, 645

Coon sl., Ill., 6

Coon sl., Wis., 49

Cooper, historian, lxxix

Cooper, J. F., 431

Copala, 759

Copes, Dr. J. S., President New Orleans Academy of Science, was among
those whom a recent dishonest adventurer deceived, and for whom Lake
Copes was named near Lake Itasca

Copperas cr., 22

Copper cr., Col., 462

Copper cr., Ill., 22

Copper cr., Wis., 42

copper mines, various, 78, 79, 80, 637, 673, 674, 734, 761

Copper r., 4, 211, 290

Copp, Pvt., 332

Coqquella, see Coahuila

Coquillas, Mex., 652

Coquimas on Humboldt's map is source of Pike's Cequimas, which see

Coquimo is Caquina, see Kyakima

Coquite is a form of Cicuique or Cicuye, see Pecos

Corbeau Fran√ßois, 347

Corbeau isl., 128, 279, 316, 356

Corbeau r., 128, 294, 316, 317, 319, 320

Cordawa, Ill., 26

Cordeliers, 333

Cordero, Gov., 411, 694, 698, 699, 700, 702, 703, 704, 710, 770, 778,
785, 813, 832, 836, 839

Cordilleras, 333

Cordova, Ill., 26

Coregonus clupeiformis, 297

Coregonus sp., 169

Cormorant pt., 313

Coronado, Francisco Vasquez de, 742, b. Salamanca about 1500; governor
of New Galicia, 1539; then married to dau. of Alonzo d'Estrada; left
Compostela Feb. 1st, 1540; at Culiacan Easter Monday; ascended Rio
Sonora; crossed Rio San Juan June 24th; reached Cibola middle of July,
no doubt at pueblo of Hawikuh, not Kyakima, as usually said; captured
it; heard of Moki country by name of Tusayan; sent Pedro de Tobar
there, that summer; sent Hernando de Alvarado to Cicuye or Pecos in
August; sent Garcia Lopez de Cardenas to the Colorado r. and on his
return thence to the Rio Grande, to prepare winter quarters at Tiguex,
at or near present Bernalillo, N. M. Coronado left Cibola, reached Rio
Grande near present Isleta, N. M.; ascended to Tiguex; fought and
captured pueblos, massacred some Tiguas, and made himself master of
the Rio Grande valley, where he wintered 1540-41; started from Pecos
May 3d, 1541, to discover the fabulous Quivira, guided by a foreign
Indian called El Turco, "the Turk," and another Indian named Xabe;
went in general N. E., and crossed Ark. r. somewhere in present
Kansas; found Quivira to be no place, but wherever Quivira Inds.
followed the buffalo; hanged the Turk; stayed with the Quiviras about
a month, and returned to Pecos and Rio Grande in Oct.; a part of his
force had returned to Tiguex in July; he was there re-enforced by
Pedro de Tobar; wintered 1541-42; was seriously injured by fall from
his horse; evacuated Tiguex Apr., 1542; left three priests and some
others there and fell back on Cibola; returned to Culiacan; left there
July 4th, 1542, for City of Mexico; was received there with disfavor;
withdrew to Cuernavaca, and there died after 1548: see Bandelier,
Gilded Man, pp. 162-257

corporal punishment, 796

corps du ballet, 627

Corpus Christi, 706

Corpus Christi cr., 707

Corpus Christi, Tex., 690, 696

Corral Bluffs, Col., 453

Corral or Carroll cr., 475

Corrales, N. M., 619

correspondence, see letter

correspondence and conferences, 221

Cort√©s, H. or F., 288, 501, 719, 722, 755

Corvid√¶, 85

Cosninas Inds., 730, 731

Cosninas mts., 731

Cosnino ca√±on, 731. This and Cojnino, Cohonino, etc., are Moki words,
otherwise Kohnina

Costa Rica, 718, 726

Costello co., Col., 492

Costilla, see Hidalgo y

Costilla r., 494

costumes, Spanish, 788

Coteau de Prairie, 343, 348

C√¥te sans Dessein, 369, 370

Cotopaxi, Col., 475, 476

Cottel's isl., 8

Cottlebaum's ldg., 363

Cottleville ldg., 362

Cotton, Mr., 139

cottonwood, 442, 728

Cottonwood cr., br. of Ark. r. from Sawatch mts., 469, 470

Cottonwood cr., br. of Currant cr., 477

Cottonwood cr., br. of Grape cr., 487

Cottonwood cr., fk. of Neosho r., see Cottonwood r.

Cottonwood Falls, Kas., 400, 401

Cottonwood isls., 11

Cottonwood r., fk. of Neosho r., 395, 397, 400, 401, 402, 403, 518,
521, 523

Cotulla, Tex., 690

Coues and Allen, 97

Coues, E., letter to, xx

Coues, E., memoir of Pike, xix to cxiii

Coues, Mrs. E., 107

Couhatchattes is a name of the Mandans

Council Grove cr., 401, 518, 521

Council Grove, Kas., 401, 518, 521

Council Grove, Smoky Valley, and Western R. R., 404

Council Hill, Ia., 305

council with Pawnees, 414, 415, 416

council with Sioux, 46, 83, 84

Courcelle, de, 294, 312

coureurs des bois, 276

Coursier's hacienda, 667

Courtchouattes is a name of the Mandans

Courtois sl., 41

Court Oreilles l., 306

courts-martial, Spanish, 799

cousin, 338

Couture, a person, 560, 714

Couverte Blanche, 347

Cove cr., 559

Covero, N. M., 616, 630

Covert cr., 405, 406

cowboys, 705, 739

Cow cr., 424, 425, 426, 545, 548

Cowhorn l., 162

Cowley co., Kas., 549, 550

Cowperthwait map, 122

Cow-wing r., 128, see Crow Wing r.

Coxe's Carolana, 50

Coyotero Apaches, 748

Crab Island chain and sl., 25

Cradled Hercules, 165, 328

Crane totem, 134

Crawford co., Ark., 559

Crawford co., Wis., 37, 41, 42

creasing horses, 436

Credit isl., 24

Creek country, 397

Creek Inds., 397, 400, 513, 557, 591

creek, see names of creeks

Creely, Theresa, 222

Crees, 351, 354

Creoles, Creolians, 510, 617, 670, 738, 764, 771, 774, 784, 790, 802

Crescent spr., near Lake Itasca, named by Brower

Creux, de, 31, 310

Creuzfeldt, F., 734

Cr√™vec[oe]ur cr., 362

Cricetus talpoides, 97

Criminal isl., 4

Cripple cr., 456

Cristivomer namaycush, 297

Cristobal mt. or pk., 598, 635, see Fra Cristobal

Crittenden, Mo., 377

Crocker cr., 401

Crocker, N. M., 636

Crockett, Davy, 38

Crockett, Tex., 708

Croix, C. F. de, 678

Croix, T. de, 677

Crooked cr., br. of Ark. r., 447

Crooked cr., br. of Cimarron r., 439

Crooked marsh, 361

Crooked rap., 142

Crooked sl., Ill., 6

Crooked sl., Ia., 41, 42

Crooked sl., Minn., 56

Crook, Gen. Geo., 747, 748, d. Mar. 21st, 1890

Crooks, Ramsay, 204

crossings of Ark. r., 439

Cross l., on Pine River route, 174

Cross or Traverse l., 161

Cross sta., 550

Crosswater is Schoolcraft's name, 1855, of Bemidji l.

Crotalus confluentus, 429

Crow cr., 25

Crow Feather r., 128

Crowing r., 128, see Crow Wing r.

Crow r., 96, 97, 128, 315

Crow r., 128, see Crow Wing r.

Crow Wing co., Minn., 127, 128, 130, 132, 135, 175

Crow Wing isl., 128, 129

Crow Wing, Minn., 125, 129, 130, 326. It was a place of importance to
the fur trade in the territorial days--a sort of Ultima Thule. But
when the N. P. R. R. founded Brainerd, the people moved themselves and
even some of their houses to the new town; those that were left were
burned

Crow Wing r., 104, 128, 129, 130, 153, 170, 177, 178, 179, 316, 317,
319, 320, 331, 334, 350, 351. John McDonnell, in Masson's Bourgeois,
1st ser., 1886, p. 269, writing about 1797, speaks of _l'aile du
corbeau_, "after a portage of that name" on the road between Prairie
du Chien and Red r. of the N.

Crozat, 289, 714

Crying Mound is a name of Blue Mound, Mo.

Crystal cr., 452

Crystal l., 135

Ctenosaura teres, 771

Cua-Kaa, old Ta√±oan pueblo on Arroyo Hondo, N. M., abandoned before
1550

Cuapa, 745

Cuaphooge, Cuapooge, names of the ancient pueblo on the site of which
was built Santa F√©, N. M.

Cuba, lxvi, 699, 749

Cub cr., 373

Cubero, N. M., 616

Cucapa, 735

Cuchans, 735, 736

Cucharas r., 448

Cuchilla, N. M., 601

Cuchillo Negro r., 637

Cueres is a form of Keres Cueva Springs, N. M., 598

Cuivre isl., 4

Cuivre r., 4, 290

Cuivre sl., 4

Culebra mts., 445

Culebra r. or cr., 445, 494, 507

Culiacan, Mex., 774

Culiacan or Culican r., 774

Culver, Kas., 405

Cumanche found for Comanche

Cumberland Heights, xxix

Cumming's hollow, 42

Cummings sta., N. M., 638

Cumpa, N. M., 630, 743; Pike took it from Humboldt's map

Cuni, 742

Curling Hair, Curly Head, Curleyhead, a chf., 133, 134

Currant cr., 464, 465, 477

Currant Creek pass, 465

Cushing, Col. T. H., 575, 826, 827, 836

Cushing, F. H., 741, 742

Custer co., Col., 483, 484, 488, 489, 491

Cutbank r., 494

Cut Foot Sioux r., 324, 325

Cut Hand cr., 143

Cutler sta., N. M., 636

Cut-off l., 147

Cut Toe l., 324

Cuvero, see Covero

Cuyamanque, Cuyamunge, N. M., 605

Cuyler's pt., 367

Cynomys ludovicianus, 429

Cypewais or Cypoway r., 60

Cythara or Cytherea isls. of Beltrami A. J. Hill thinks are those at
mouth of Rabbit r., though Beltrami says only 6 m. below Pine r.


D

D'Abadie, 213, 214

Dacota, see Dakota

Daily Democrat, St. Paul, 85

Daily Transcript, Little Falls, 107, 123

Dakota co., Minn., 72, 73, 74

Dakota cr., Minn., 52, 74

Dakota Inds., 345, 348, 349, see Sioux

Dakota, Minn., 52, 53

Dallas City, Ill., 18

Dallas co., Mo., 376, 380, 384

Dallas, Tex., 697

Dallum, R., 607

D'Almansa, Capt. A., xlvi, 611, 613, 614, 615, 622, 627, 628, 633

Dam bay, 324, 325

Dameron, Mo., 5

Danger l., 166, was named by Peter Turnbull

Danton, Wm., liii

Danville, Mo., 367

Dardenne, Dardonne isl., 4

Darien, 522

Darke co., O., cxi, 438

Dauntless, a chf., 348

Dauntless Society, 86

Dauphine, Mo., 370

Davenport, Ia., 21, 24, 25

Davenport l., 174

Davenport, Mr., 709, 710

Daviess, Joseph Hamilton, b. Bedford co., Va., Mar. 4th, 1774, d. near
Tippecanoe, Ind., Nov. 8th, 1811, of wounds rec'd at battle of T. the
day before: see Jo Daviess

Davis, N. H., 358

Dayton bluff, St. Paul, Minn., 75, 198, 199, 201

Dayton, Hennepin co., Minn., 96

Dayton rap., 96, 97

Dead, Lake of the, Coahuila, 673

Dead, Lake of the, N. M., 635

Dead Man's ca√±on, 455

Dead Man's spr., 636

Dead mt., 639

Dean cr. or brook, 132, 135, 173, 175, 177

Dearborn co., Ind., xxi

Dearborn, Gen. H., xxi, li, lvii, lviii, lix, lx, lxi, lxiii, lxx,
lxxii, lxxiii, lxxiv, lxxix, lxxx, lxxxiii, xcvii, xcviii, ci, cii,
ciii, 15, 239, 418, 567, 575, 582, 583, 584, 585, 705, 841, 842, 845,
853, 854

Dearing's ldg., 370

Dease, F. M., 25

Death mt., 635

Death's Door bluffs, 297

Death's Head cr., 28

death's heads, 28

De Biedma, 288

De Breche, 176, 177, 189, 190, 347, 351, see Br√™che-dent

De Corbeau r., 128, 294, see Crow Wing r.

De Courcelle, 294

De Creux, 31, 310

De Cross, see La Crosse pra.

Deep cr., br. of Osage r., 379

Deep Water cr., br. of Grand r., Mo., 379

Deer cr., br. of Ark. r., Okla., 550

Deer cr., br. of Mo. r., or Grindstone cr. of L. and C., 370

Deer cr., br. of Neosho r., Kas., 397

Deer cr., br. of Osage r., Mo., 377, 378

Deer cr. of L. and C., 368

Deerfield, Kas., 440

Deer Lodge co., Mont., cxi

Deer or White Oak l., Minn., 147, 148

Deer r., Itasca co., Minn., 147, 150, 321

Deer River (town), Itasca co., Minn., 145, 166, 167

Deis, see St. Dies and Sandia

Deity, 353, 806

De la Harpe, B., 77, 78, 79

Del Arroyo pueblo, 630

Delassus, Gov., 367

De Launay, 560

Delaware, lxxxvi

Delaware Inds., 526, 591

Delaware r., xx

Delhi, Wis., 301

De L'Isle, 81, 95, 313

Delpetrero, 653

Delta co., Mich., 297

deluge-myth, 182

Deluot l., 153, 155

Demaray cr., 165, named by Brower for Mrs. Georgiana Demaray, dau. of
Wm. Morrison

Demaray, Mrs. Geo., 326

Demick's isl., 97

Demidouzaine, Demi Douzen, Demie Douzaine, 84, 88

Deming, N. M., 638

Demizimaguamaguen-sibi, 160

Demon r., 14, see Des Moines r.

De Moyen r., 222, 291, 293, 339, 343, 344, 347, see Des Moines r.

De Moyen rap., 13, 25, 291, 337, 347

Dendragapus canadensis, 175

Dendragapus obscurus, 458

Denmark isl., 7

Denver and Rio Grande R. R., 460, 462, 469, 470, 471, 492, 494, 597

Denver, Col., xliv, xlv, cxii, 456, 457, 466, 467, 490, 495

Denver ed. of Pike, xliv, xlv

Denver, Leadville, and Gunnison br. of U. P. R. R., 470

Denver, South Park, and Pacific R. R., 467, 469

Department of Archives, Ottawa, xcii

Department of Taos, 598

Department, see War do.

De Pere, Depere, Wis., 298, 299

Derby, Lieut. G. H., see Fort Ripley

Derby, Tex., 690

De Sable l., see Sandy l.

De Sezei, see Lisa

Desgrozeliers, 295

Desir√©, a person, 334, 335

Des Moines co., Ia., 18, 21

Desmoin, Des Moines, Des Moyan r., lxii, 13, 14, 15, 206, 222, 291

Des Moines, Desmoines rap., 2, 9, 221, 222

Des Moins, Ia., xlix

De Soto, H., 288

De Soto r., 163

De Soto, Wis., 42

d'Esprit, Pierre, 295

D√©tergette, D., 214

D√©tour de Pin, des Pins, Miss. r., 74

D√©tour de Pin, du Pin, Wisc. r., 302, 303

D√©tour, La., 356

D√©tour pt., 297

D√©troit, 297

Detroit isl., 297

Detroit, Mich., xxiii, xxx, xciv, xcvii, 229

De Veau, Jacques, 194

Devil's cr., Ia., 16, 17

Devil's isl., Ia., 16

Devil's l., N. Dak., 314

Devil's Race-ground, 363

De Witt Clinton's r., 163

Dhegiha, 412, 559

Diamond Bluff, Wis., 73

Diamond cr., 401, 518, 521

Diamond isl., in the Miss. r., so called by river-men, gives name to
the town on the Wisconsin side nearly opposite it, near the bold bluff

Diamond l., 90

Diamond spr., 401, 518, 521

Diaz, Capt. Melchior, attempted to discover Cibola, Nov. 17th, 1539,
to Mar. 20th, 1540; reached Colorado r. of the West in 1541, and found
traces of Alarcon

D'Iberville, 77, 78, 288, 713, 714

Dickinson co., Kas., 395, 403, 404

Dickson, Col. Robert, 40, 99, 117, 118, 119, 120, 154, 155, 176, 180,
181, 186, 189, 191, 193, 194, 195, 196, 198, 202, 223, 225, 242, 261,
267, 294, 295, 298, 299, 300, 302

Dicotyles torquatus, 697

Dido, Queen, 704

Dill, Lt. J., xxvi, xxviii

Dindon, see Turkey r., 355

Dimick's isl., 97, 98, 194

diplomacy, English and Spanish-American, 803

discipline, Spanish military, 797

dish game, 535

dispunishable, 204

Dissertation on Louisiana, Pike's, 511

District of Columbia, 229, 721

District of St. Charles, 360

District of St. Louis, 388

Disturnell's map, 644, 645

Divine r., 3

Division cr., 164, so named by Brower, is first fk. of Miss. r. below
Itasca l., and heads on divide between Mexican and Hudsonian waters

Dixon, Mr., 267

Dixon's, Ill., 4

Dobson's sl., 16, 17

Dodd's crossing, 12

Dodd's isl., 369, 370

Dodge City, Kas., 434, 437, 438

Dodge, Col. H., 45

Dodge's br., 32

Dodsley, R., xxxi

Doe l., 124, 329

Doe r., 124

Dog cr., 373

Dog Inds., 35, 36, 303, 338

Dog Plains, 35, see Prairie du Chien

Dog's Meadow, 355, see Prairie du Chien

Dog's Plain, 35, see Prairie du Chien

Dog, The, a chf., 36

Dogtown, Ill., 5

Dollie, Mo., 385

Dolly Varden Expedition, 336

Dolly Varden l., 166, named in N. Y. Herald, July 6th, 1872, by Julius
Chambers, after name of his canoe

Dolores hacienda, 671, 672

Dolores, Mex., 765

Dolores sta., Mex., 671

Dolores r., in Utah, 730, 732

Dome Rock, 465

Dominion of Canada, 558

Dona Ana Bend Colony, 639

Dona Ana co., N. M., 638, 640

Dona Ana hills, 639

Dona Ana, N. M., 639, 640, 644

Dona is properly Do√±a, often now Donna

Doniphan, Col. A. W., 634, 636, 640, 654, 655, 667, 674, 746

Doniphan's Expedition, 429, 446, 649, 652, 654, 655, 746, 747

Don r., in Ontario, lxxvii, c

Dorante, S., see Est√©van

Door co., Wis., 297

Door in the Mountain, 751

Door of the Prison, 674

Dornick sta., 470

Doty or Doty's isl., 300

Douay, Friar A., 779, 780

Double r., 97

Dougherty, Pvt. T., xlvi, 1, 359, 360, 432, 482, 485, 486, 487, 490,
505, 506, 509, 510, 845, 854, 855

Douglas co., Kas., 519

Douglas co., Wis., 310

Douglas, S. A., 310

Douglasville, Ill., 8

Dousman, H. M., 204

Doylestown, Pa., 602

Dozier's bend and ldg., 362

Dragoon cr., 520

Draper, L. C., 11, 239

Dresbach, Minn., 53

Dresbach's isl., 53

Drury sl., 23

Dry cr., br. Ark. r., in Col., 443

Dry cr., br. of Mulberry cr., in Kas., 404

Dry or Horse cr., in Col., 446

Dry route on Ark. r., 433, 434, 437

Dry Walnut cr., 425

Drywood cr., 386

Du Bois or Dubois cr., 363, 364

Du Bois r., 2

Dubuque, Ia., 20, 27, 28, 32, 293, 294; lat. 42¬∞ 29¬¥ N., long. 90¬∞ 44¬¥
W., pop. 30,311 in 1890

Dubuque interrogation, 226

Dubuque, Julien, 29, 30, 32, 37, 209, 211, 224, 225, 226, 268, 294,
303; best biogr. in Tass√©, I. pp. 239-62, with view of his grave

Dubuque, Kas., 423

Dubuque's bluff, 294

Dubuque's lead mines, 28, 29, 226

Duc de Chartres, 531

Duchouquette, B. (for J. B.), 578, 579

Duchouquette, F. L., 388

Duchouquette, J. B., 387, 388

Duchouquette, Marie, 222

duck-billed cat, 5

Duck cr., 25

Duck Creek chain and sl., 25

Duckett, see Little and Big

Duck l., Mex., 651, see Patos l.

Duck l., Minn., Crow Wing co., 131, 177

Duck l., Minn., near Minneapolis, 90

Dug Out cr., 18

Dudley, Lieut., xcvii

Duhaut, 560, 779, 780

Duimas r., 732

Duke cr., 364

Duke of York, lxxvi

Duluth, 130, 135

Duluth and Winnipeg R. R., 143, 145, 148, 167

Du Luth, Le Sieur D. G., 70, 71, 72, 309, 312, 313

Dumoulin, Amaranthe, 222

Dunbar, Wm., 473, 612, 704, 827, 834

Duncan, Mr., 81

Dundas, lxviii

Dundee sta., Kas., 432

Dundee sta., Mo., 365

Dunegan, F. B., 214

Duponceau l., 153, 323

Du Quarre, 347

Durango, archbishop of, 800

Durango, City of, 761, 762, 763, 764, 770, 773, 775

Durango, State of, 648, 673, 674, 675, 678, 679, 689, 719, 723, 726,
747, 759, 763, 774, 775

Durazno l., 650

Durgan's cr., 11, 291

Durham, Kas., 401, 402, 403, 521

Durham's for Durnam's isl., 94

Durkee's isl., 11

Durnam's isl., 94

Duroc, Mo., 377

Durrett, Dr. R. T., preface and li, lii

dusky grouse, 458

Dutch cr., 483

Dutch ed. of Pike, xxxviii, xliii, xliv

Dutch Fred, 163

Dutchman isl., 18

Dutch or Swift cr., 483

Dutton, Pvt., 332

Dwelling of the Great Spirit, 198

Dwissler's cr., 518, 520


E

Eagle, see Killeur, 118

Eagle bay, 297

Eagle bluff, on Green bay, Wis., 297

Eagle bluff, on Miss. r., Wis., 56, 57

Eagle cr., br. of Miss. r., Wis., 55, 57

Eagle cr., br. of Neosho r., Kas., 399, 400

Eagle isl., 6

Eagle Nest savannah, 150

Eagle pass, 690, 696

Eagle r., br. of Grand r., 471

Eagle's Nest isl., 2

Eagle sta., N. M., 636

Eakins, Mr., lxx

Eamozindata r., 67

Eanbosandata, 348

East Arm of Lake Itasca was so named by Brower

East Burlington, Ill., 19

East Dubuque, Ill., 32

East fk. of Ark. r., 471

East fk. of Elk r., 98

East fk. of Miss. r., on Eastman's map of 1855, is the Naiwa, Laplace,
or Schoolcraft r., 331

East Indies, 791

East Indies, Spanish, 718

Eastman, Capt. Seth, U. S. A., 162, 163, d. Aug. 31st, 1875

East Naiwa r., 162

East Ojibway, see Ojibway, Minn.

Easton, Pa., xx

East r. of Pike, br. of Osage r., 382

East Turkey cr., 455

East St. Cloud, Minn., 100

East Savannah r., 138

East Swan r. of Nicollet, 143

East Wing cr., 370

Eaton, Mrs. B. H., xxxii

Eau Claire r., 56, 57, 305, 355

Eau de Vie r., 96

ecclesiasticism in New Spain, 801

Eccleston l., 153, 155

Echararria, Lt. J., 703

Economy of Human Life, xxxi

Ectopistes migratorius, 211

Ecuadorean Andes, 461

Eddy, Corporal, 211

Eden, Dickens' City of, 11

Edgerton, Kas., 519

Educational Reporter Extra, 327

Edwards Co., Kas., 434

Edwards r., see Beck's Gazetteer, 1823, p. 104

Egg Harbor, 298

Egypt, 621

Eight Mile cr., in Col., 462

Eight Mile cr., in Kas., 520

El, see some of the Sp. names without the definite article

√©lan, eland, 87, 240

Elan Levie or Leve, 240

El Andabazo cr., 672, 673

Elbert co., Col., 443

El Beson, 703

Elceario, 649

Elco, Kas., 400

El Dorado, liv, 501

electricity, 759, 760

Electric pk., 483

Elephant butte, 637

Eleven Mile ca√±on, 466, 467

Elisaira, Elizario, 770

Elk co., Kas., 555

Elk cr., br. of Ark. r., in Ark., 558

Elk cr., br. of Miss. r., in Ia., 27

Elk cr., feeder of Elk l., Itasca basin, 166

elk-hunting, 109, 110, 111, 112

Elk l., formerly Itasca l., 326, 327

Elk l., near Itasca l., 165, 166, 334, was surveyed, located, and
marked with posts in Oct., 1875, by E. S. Hall

Elk l. of Pike, now Little Rock l., 102

Elk pool, near Elk l., Itasca basin, was so named by Brower

Elk r., br. of Miss. r., in Ia., 27

Elk r., br. of Miss. r., in Minn., 95, 97, 101, 314

Elk r., br. of Verdigris r., 555

Elk r., in British America, 278

Elk r., 289, is the Miss. r. between Elk or Itasca l. and Bemidji l.

Elk r. of Allen, by error, 122

Elk r. of Pike, now Little Elk r., 124, 316

Elk River (town), Sherburne co., Minn., 97

Elk spr., at E. side of Elk l., Itasca basin, were so named by Brower

Ellicott City, Md., 656

Ellicott, Hon. A., 656, 657

Ellicott's Mills, Md., 656

Ellinwood, Kas., 522

Elliott Coues l., 160

Elliott, Lt. J. D., ciii

Ellis co., Kas., 404

Ellis isl., 2

Ellison's cr., 18

Ellsworth co., Kas., 404, 423

Elm cr., br. of Council Grove cr., 518, 521

Elm cr., br. of Marais des Cygnes r., 518, 521

Elm cr., br. of Miss. r., 94

Elm cr., br. of Neosho r., 397, 398

Elmdale, Kas., 401

Elm isl., in Cass l., 158

Elmo, Kas., 403

Elohist, 182

El Paso co., Col., 443, 452, 465

El Paso co., Tex., 640

El Paso del Norte, 595, 619, 631, 632, 638, 639, 640, 641, 642, 643,
644, 645, 646, 647, 648, 650, 651, 682, 684, 686, 729, 739, 740, 756,
760, 762

El Paso de los Tres Rios, 685

El Paso, Tex., xxxii, 641, 642, 643

El Pe√±ol, 653, 654

El Pozo, 677, 680, 682

El Rio, 288

El Rosario r., 774

El Saucillo, 669

Elsberry, Mo., 5

El Torreon, 677, 679

El Turco, see Coronado

Elvira l., 162

Embarras, Embarrassments r., 56, 305, 355

Embuda, Embudo, N. M., 598, 606

Embudo cr., 606

Emily bend, 365

Emory, Lt. or Maj. W. H., 429, 554, 607, 617, 631, 642, 643, 644, 645,
646, 647, 691, 692, 697, 712, 737, 788

Empire gulch, 471

Emporia, Kas., 397

Enbudo, 606

Encina hacienda, 687

Encinal, Tex., 690

Encinas, Mex., 687, 688

Encinillas l., 653

Encinillas, Mex., 654

Engineer Bureau, 549, 554

England, passim, xxxi, 802, 804

English chain, 15

English diplomacy, 803

English ed. of Pike, xxxviii, xxxix

English generalities not indexed

Ensign, Kas., 437

Enterprise isl., 4

Eokoros, 50

Eororos, 65

√©pinette, 319, 321, 324

√âpinettes, River of, 324

Epouvette isl., 295

Epsport, 296

Erethizon dorsatum, 125

Erie, battle of, lxxxi, see Fort Erie

Erie, Minn., 318

Esanapes, 68

Escalante, 730, 738

Escalon, 674

Eschkebugecoshe, 169

Escondido r., 289

escopate, escopet, escopette, 508

Eshkabwaka l., 159

Eshkibogikoj, Eskibugeckoge, 169, 261, 335, 347, 351

Espa√±ola, N. M., 601

Espejo, Antonio de, was on the Rio Grande of N. M. in 1583, but did
not found Santa F√©, whose "tercentennial" of 1883 was too previous; he
died 1585

Espinazo, Arroyo del, 616

Espiritu Santo bay, 697

Espiritu Santo r., 288

Espiritu Santo spr., 675

Esprit Bleu or Blue, 343, 347

Esprit, Pierre de, 295

Esquagamau l., 135

Esquibugicoge, 169

Essai Militaire, 503

Essanapes, 50

Esterolargo mt., 638

Est√©van, Est√©vanico, the negro killed by the Cibolans in 1539, see
Nizza. He is sometimes mistakenly called Stefano Dorante

estufa, 737

Ethnography of the Mississippi, 337

√âtienne, Veuve, 295

Etlah sta., Mo., 365

Eureka, Wis., 301

Eureka Irrigating Canal, Kas., 434

Eustace, Capt., xcii

Eustis, Hon. Wm., lxv, lxvii

Eustis, Maj., lxxx, lxxxi, lxxxviii, lxxxvix

Evangelists, The, is trans. of Los Evangelistas, collective name given
by Kino in 1699 to four branches of the Gila r., now the Salado or
Salt, the Verde, Santa Cruz, and San Pedro

Ewing's cr., 369, 370

Ewing, Wm., 15, 222, 223, 291, 292

examination of papers, 610

ex[oe]cias, 741

explosions, 109, and see magazines

Exposition Grounds, Toronto, lxxvi, lxxviii

Eyeish, Eyish, 711


F

Fabas, Fabbas r., 9

Fabius isl., 10, 11

Fabius r., 9, 10

Fabius tp., Mo., 11

Fair American, a ship, lxxxiii

Fairbanks, a Mr., 324

Fairfield, Mo., 380

Fairport, Ia., 23

Fall cr., Pike co., Ill., 6

Fall Inds., 278

Falling Leaf, a chf., 43

Falling Rock cr., 2

Fall r., br. of Verdigris r., 555

Falls cr., or Bassett's cr., 94

Falls, see names of falls, besides the following:

Falls of Pakagama, 147

Falls of St. Anthony, 35, 91, 195, 196, 198, 227, 231, 232, 234, 235,
244, 310, 311, 321, 348, 356, 844, and see the elaborate illustrated
article in Final Rep. Geol. Surv., Minn., II., 4to

Fanning, Capt. A.C.W., lxxxvii

Faraone Apaches, 632, 748

Faribault, A., 76

Faribault, B., 76

Faribault, J. B., 76, 83, see Tass√©, II., pp. 309-331, portrait

Faribault, Minn., 76

Farm Island l., reference lost

Farnese, A., a pope, 599

Farris Hotel, Pueblo, Col., 453, 454

Father Gabriel, 64

Father of Waters, 289

Father, Son, and Holy Ghost r., 708

Faucon Noir is F. name of Black Hawk, a chf.

Fawn cr., 400

Fay, H. A., lxxix, ci

Featherstonhaugh, G. W., 11, 14, 18, 26, 51, 54, 61, 63, 66, 79, 80,
81, 85, 200, 289, 295, 298, 299

Febvre, Jos. d'I. de Brouisseau le, 214

Federal City, 824, 833

Federal District of Mexico, 721

Feebyain, 338

Fee Fee cr., 362

Femme Osage r., 362, 363

Fener, Mr., 243

F√©nelon, F. de S. de la Mothe-, xxiv

Fennai, F., 243, was a boatman in Amer. Fur Co., Feb. 25th, 1819

Ferara, Capt. de, 686

Ferdinand cr., 357

Fernandez, Don B., 508, 595

Fern Leaves, 349

Fero, D., liii, liv, 660, 665, 811, 812

Ferrebault, see Faribault

Ferrero, Don J. J. de, 686

Ferro, D., 660, see Fero

Ferry sl., 41

Ferryville, Wis., 42

Fest's ferry, 637

Fever r., 28, 29

Fiddle cr., 363

Fiddler's bend, 301

Field, T. W., xlii

Fievre r., 29

Fifer's ldg., 361

Fifth rap. of Nicollet, 125

figs, fig trees, 675, 676, 681

Filotrano, 329

Fils de Killeur Rouge, 118, 180

Fils de Penechon, Penichon, Pinechon, or Pinchow, 83, 84, 86, 195,
197, 198, 257, 346, 347

Filson Club, lii

Finan, P., lxxix, lxxxviii, xcvii

Finlay, Anthony, 553

Finlayson, J., 553

Finney co., Kas., 440

Fire pra., lxii

First Dragoon cr., 520

First fk. of Ark. r., 448, 463

Fish cr., br. of Marais des Cygnes r., 518, 521

Fisher, Judge, Capt., or Mr., 6, 35, 37, 42, 87, 206, 209, 211, 224,
225, 269, 372

Fisher's cr., 41

Fisher's ldg., 368

Fisher sta., Col., 470

Fish l., on Bend cr., 99

Fishline l., 317

Fish r. or St. Croix r., 72

Fitz Gerald, David, preface

Fiuntenas, 773

Five Points sl., 6

flag incident, 89

Flambeau r., 306

Flanders, 677, 701

Flat Mouth, a chf., 134, 156, 169, 170, 171, 172, 260, 335, 347, 351

Flat r., 102

Flax r. is a name of the Colorado Chiquito, in frequent use about 40
years ago, trans. Rio de Lino of early Sp. records

Fletcher cr., 125, 179

Fleury, Judge, 727

Flint cr. or r., 19

Flint hills, 19

Flite, Miss., lxiii

Floating Bog cr., 167

Floating Moss l., 165

Floodwood, Minn., 143

Floodwood r., 143

Florado r., 669, 670

Florence, Col., 462

Florence, Italy, 328

Florence, Kas., 401

Florence, Minn., 63

Florida, as a captaincy-general, 718

Florida boundary, 657

Florida, Mex., 683, 684

Florida mts., 638

Florida or Florido r., 669, 670, 671, 762

Florida, State of, lxvi, lxxxvii, 734, 779

Florissant, Col., 465, 467

Florissant, Mo., 214, 511

Fly pass, 492

Foley sta., Mo., 5

foliated talc, 729

folle avoine, 38

Folle Avoine Inds., 38, 117, 118, 120, 124, 125, 126, 298, 299, 300,
301, 305, 306, 309, 314, 340, 341, 343, 346, 347, 351

Fond du Lac co., Wis., 300

Fond du Lac department, 280, 282, 284, 285

Fond du Lac, Minn., 139, 141, 168, 170, 181, 295, 321, 356

Fond du Lac r., 321

Fond du Lac, Wis., 24

Fons et Origo spr., 165

Fontainebleau, 213

Fontaine qui Bouille r., 452

Fontaine-qui-bouit r., 453

Fontaine r., 452

Ford co., Kas., 435, 436, 437

Ford, Col., 475

Ford, Kas., 436, 437

Forest Hill, Kas., 423

forestry question, 524

Forked r., 289

Forks of Ark. r., 463, and see under East, First, Grand, Lake, North,
Pike's, Tennessee, and Third

Forks of Miss. r., at Crow Wing r., 317

Forks of Miss. r., at Leech Lake br., 325

Forsyth, Maj. B., lxxx, lxxxiv, lxxxv, lxxxvi, xcvi, cii

Forsyth, Maj. Thos., 12, 19, 22, 26, 54, 56, 88, 89, 118, 239

Fort Adaize, 713, 714

Fort Adams, 564, 565, 827

Fort Armstrong, 25, begun May, 1816; named for the Secretary of War:
see Annals of Iowa, Jan., 1895, pp. 602-614, plate

Fort Atkinson, 358, 425, 434, 439

Fort Atkinson, old, below Fort Dodge, abandoned before 1866

Fort at or below Lake Pepin, built by Perrot, 65

Fort at Toronto, lxxvii

Fort Aubray, Aubrey, Aubry, 442

Fort Beauharnois, 65, 80, 308

Fort Bliss, 643

Fort Bourbon, 256

Fort Brady, 332

Fort Carondelet, 384, 387, 541

Fort Cayome, liii

Fort Charles the Prince, 214

Fort Chartres, 204, 213, 214, 531, 532

Fort Clark, see Fort Osage

Fort Clark, Tex., 690

Fort Clemson, 367

Fort Conchos, 668

Fort Conrad, 633, 634

Fort Craig, 634

Fort Crawford, 36, 45

Fort Crawford, on Des Moines r., 13

Fort Cr√®vec[oe]ur, 3, 64, 68

Fort Crittenden, 773

Fort Cummings, 638

Fort Dauphin, 256

Fort de Charters, 531

Fort Dodge, 437

Fort Duncan, 690, 691, 696

Fort Duquesne, 453

Fort Edwards, 14

Fort Elisiaira, Elizario, 648, 649

Fort Erie, lxxxvii, xc

Fort Ewell, 696

Fort Falls, 692

Fort Fayette, xxvi

Fort Fillmore, 640

Fort Frontenac, lxxii, 70, 309

Fort Gage, 532

Fort Gaines, 127

Fort Garland, 493, 494, 596

Fort George, lxxiii, lxxiv, xciv, xcv, xcviii, cvi

Fort Griffin, 706

Fort Howard, 299

fortifications, supposed, 57, 59, 60

Fort Inge, 696

Fort Jesup, 712

Fort La Baie, La Baye, 298

Fort La Reine, 254, 255, 256

Fort Larned, 425, 426, 429, 435, 444

Fort Leavenworth, 333, 405, 446, 519

Fort L'Huillier, 65, 78, 79

Fort Lesueur, 71, 73

Fort Lowell (old), 596

Fort Lyon, 435, 444, 445

Fort McDowell, 734, abandoned

Fort McHenry, lxiv

Fort McIntosh, 690, 691, 696

Fort Mackinac, 176

Fort McRae, 635, 636, 637, named for Capt. Alex. McRae, killed at
battle of Valverde, Feb. 21st, 1861; site selected by A. L. Anderson,
in the ca√±on E. of Rio Grande, about 40 m. S. of Fort Craig.

Fort Madison (fort and town, Ia.), 17

Fort Mann, 437

Fort Marcy, 605, 607, was built precisely on the site of the older one
of two Indian villages which were replaced by Santa F√©, N. M.

Fort Marsiac, Massac, xxv, 656, 657

Fort Mason, 771, 773

Fort Mellon, lxxxvii

Fort Mohave, Mojave, 736

Fort Niagara, lxxvi, cvi

Fort Osage (or Clark), 520

Fort Oswego, ciii

Fort Perrot (various or alleged), 54, 59

Fort Pike, La., cx

Fort Pike, N. Y., civ, cx

Fort Point (Clark or Osage), 520

Fort Prince Charles, 358

Fort Recovery, 438

Fortress Monroe, 45

Fort Reynolds, 451

Fort Riley, 404, 405, 408, 425

Fort Ringgold, 692

Fort Ripley (old), 127, site selected by Gen. Geo. Mercer Brooke,
surveyed Sept. 24th, 1848, by Lieuts. Geo. Hasket Derby and Robert
Stockton Williamson, both then of U. S. Top. Engrs., former of
Ph[oe]nixiana and Squibob fame, latter noted in connection with Pac.
R. R. expls. and surveys; see Harper's Mag., XIX, 1859, p. 54

Fort Ripley (town), Minn., 127, 179

Fort Rouill√©, lxxv, lxxvi, lxxxiii, xcii, cii

Fort St. Anthony (Snelling), 30, 58, 82, 83, 328, 329

Fort St. Antoine, Beef r., 58

Fort St. Antoine, Lake Pepin, 65

Fort St. Croix, 309

Fort St. Louis, Ill., 560, 714

Fort St. Louis, Ia., 13

Fort St. Louis, Mo., 269

Fort St. Louis, Tex., 560, 779, 780

Fort St. Pierre, 80

Fort Sarah, 425

Fort Scott, 394, 395

Fort Selden, 636, 638, 639, 640

Fort Smith, 559

Fort Snelling, 30, 58, 75, 82, 83, 84, 85, 90, 91, 236, 243, 310, 328,
334, 358, 405: see also Ex. Doc. No. 9, Ho. Reps., 40th Congr., 3d
Sess.

Fort Stanton, 447

Fort Thorn, 638

Fort Tompkins, ciii

Fort Toronto or Rouill√©, lxxv, cii

Fort Toronto or York, lxxvii

Fort Towson, 519

Fort Whipple, 735, 747

Fort William (British), 169

Fort William, Col., 446

Fort Wingate, 607, 619, 629, 742

Forty-niners, cxi

Fort York, lxix, lxxiii, lxxiv, lxxvi, lxxvii, lxxviii, lxxix, lxxx,
lxxxiii, lxxxiv, lxxxv, lxxxvii, xcii, xciii, xciv, xcv, xcvii, c, ci;
and see York

Fort Yuma, 646, 736

Fort Zara, Zarah, 425; gone before 1866

Foster, Dr. Thos., 85, 86, 87, 88

Fountain cave, 75, 199, 200, 201

Fountain City bay, 57

Fountain City, Wis., 55, 56

Fountain cr., 452

Fountain r., 445, 451, 452, 453, 454, 459, 463

Four Brothers isls., 4

Fourche de la C√¥te du Kansas, 423

Four Mile cr., 399

Fourth rap., 104

Fowlshiels, xlv

Fownda, Chevalier Don, 812, 813

Fox Inds., 26, 31, 35, 36, 301, 330, 338, 339, 346, 347

Fox isl., 12, 13

Fox pra., 12

Fox r., Ia., 12, 13

Fox r., Wis., 291, 294, 295, 298, 299, 301, 302, 338, 340, 341, 347

Fox sl., 13

Fox-Wisconsin portage, route, traverse, 24, 35, 68, 294, 302

Fra Cristobal, 634, 635, 639

Fra Cristobal mt. or pk., 633, 637

Frame cr., 366

France, 213, 701, 805

Francisco, Don, 618

Francis r., 377, 378

Fran√ßois r., 95, 313

Franconia, 309

Frank, a Pawnee, 402, 408, 416, 569

Franklin co., Kas., 520

Franklin co., Mo., 363, 364, 365, 366

Franklin mts., 631, 640

Franklin, Tex., 643

Franquelin, J. B., 3, 13, 24, 35, 48, 49, 51, 71, 72, 73, 81, 91, 95,
309, 313

Fraser, Lieut., lxxxiv, lxxxvii, xc, xcix

Fray Cristobal, 635, 636

Frazer City, Minn., 318

Frazer, Jas., 37, 40, 42, 44, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 54, 55, 58, 59, 61,
70, 82, 91, 201, 202, 205, 206, 207, 238, 242, 243, 244

Frazer, Jos. J., 40

Frazer, Robert, 40

Frazier l., in Itasca basin, flows into Little Mantrap l.

Fredonia, Ia., 23

Fredonia, Kas., 555

Freeman, Col. C., 564, 715

Freeman, Mr. Thos., li, 412, 473, 710, 827, 841

Fr√©mont co., Col., 460, 462, 483

Fr√©mont, J. C., 79, 333, 334, 381, 446, 452, 453, 457, 645

Fr√©mont pass, 471

Fr√©mont's pk., 462

French, Capt. S. G., 643, 645

French ed. of Pike, xxxviii, xl

French influence on Osage Inds., 531

Frenchman's bar, 74

French post, old, near Trempealeau, 54

French rap., 131

French Rapids was also name of a paper town on E. side of Miss. r.,
still-born or extinct about 1857

French Raven, a chf., 347

French relations, 288

Frene cr., 366

Fresaie, 179

Fresno, 667

Freytas, 288

Friar Christopher, 639

Friar Christopher mt., 633, 634, 635, 639

friars, two, 755, are uncertain: see Nadal Nizza, and Asuncion, J. de
la

Fridley's bar, 94. Fridley was a local magnate in territorial times,
whose farm was at the mouth of Rice cr., where he laid out a town he
called Manomin, and in 1859 made a new county of this name, though
Manomin co. consisted of less than half a township (T. 30, R. 24, 4th
M.), being little over 15 sq. miles. The county was nicknamed
"Fridley's farm." Under the State constitution no county could be less
than a certain area without an affirmative vote of its inhabitants.
This one did not work well, and those most interested wanted to get
rid of it. To do so required a special alteration of the constitution.
This was made, and Manomin was annexed to Anoka co. in 1870, with the
result of the curious spur or lobe (Fridley township) which hangs to
the latter. It is a wonder that the knowing ones did not see how
Minneapolis would have been aggrandized by adding Manomin to Hennepin
co. The original settler on Manomin was John Banfill, about 1848

Frio r., 696

Frijoles cr., 604

Frobisher, Mr., 188

Frontenac, L. de Buade de, 77, 294, 307, 312

Frontenac, Minn., 63, 64, 65, 69

Frontenac r., 289

Frontera, Fronteras, Tex., 643, 644, 645, 646

Fronteras, Sonora, 773

Front range of Rocky mts., 444, 451, 452, 454, 456, 467

Front st., Toronto, lxxviii

Fruitland, Ill., 4

Frye isl., near Hancock's, in S. W. ¬º of Sect. 14, below Elk r.

Fuentes, Mex., 691

Fuerte r., 762

Fulton, Fulton's isl., 25, 27

Fulton, Ill., 27

Fulton, Kas., 394

furs and peltries, return of, 284, 285

fur trade, 274


G

Gachupines, 738, 739

Gadsden purchase or treaty, 644, 645, 646, 647, 727, 770

Gagiwitadinag l., 166

Gaillard, Gaillard's r., 377, see Giard

Galena, Ill., 28

Galena r., 28, 29, 32

Gales and Seaton, 840

Galisteo cr., 615

Gallardo, see Galvez y

Galland, Ia., 15

Gallatin, Mr., lxx

Gallego, Gallejo spr., 652

Gallegos, N. M., 601

Gallinipper cr., 383

Galtier, Rev. L., 75

Galueston's, Galveston bay, 710, 781

Galves, Count of, 803, 804

Galveston, Tex., 707

Galvez, Don D. C., 803

Galvez y Gallardo, B., 803, 804

game of ball, 50, 207

games, Pawnee, 534, 535

games, Spanish, 789

Gange, see Grange

Ganges r., 70

Gannett, Henry, preface

Ganville, 310

Garcia, Don F., 643

Garde, see Mont La Garde

Garden City, Kas., 440

Garden isl., 158

Garden of the Gods, 452; name arose before 1859

Gardner, Col., 492

Garey, Bill or Wm., 446

Garfield, Kas., 434, 435

Garland, Col. J., 425

Garlic bluffs, cape, and r., 42, 43

Garrison cr., Ark., 559

Garrison cr., Ont., lxxvii

Garrison, O. E., 336

Garrison pt. was named by Brower for O. E. Garrison, who visited Lake
Itasca in July, 1880

Garzas, Mex., 668, 669

Gasconade City, Mo., 367

Gasconade co., Mo., 366, 369

Gasconade r., 11, 366, 367, 368, 369, 512

Gass, P., 364

Gastacha, 288

Gaston, 30

Gatchi Betobeeg is Schoolcraft's name, 1855, for the great morasses
above Pokegama falls

Gates, Gen., lvi, lvii

Gates of the Rocky mts., 642

Gatschet, A. S., 706, 713

Gatu√±o, 677

Gaurreau, Lt. F., ciii

Gauss l., 153, 155

Gauthier, Gaultier, see Verendrye

Gayard r., 37, see Giard r.

Gayarr√©, Charles √âtienne Arthur, 714, b. Louisiana, Jan. 9th, 1805,
was living 1894, since dead

Gayashk l., 134

Gayashk r., 129, 334

Gaygwedosay cr., 166, 334, so named by Brower, see Trying to Walk

Gayoso de Lemas, Don M., lv, 657

Gear, Rev. Ezekiel Gilbert, of Conn., was chaplain at Fort Snelling
1838-53, and at Fort Ripley 1860-67; d. Oct. 13th, 1873

Gear l., 174

Geary co., Kas., 404, 410

geese, 89

General Land Office, 7, 26, 491, 554

General Pike, a ship, cix, cx. Further information in Barrie's Army
and Navy, p. 38, and Roosevelt's Naval War of 1812, p. x, fig. Emmons
says she was 875 tons, carried 28 long 24's, and was second frigate
launched on Lake Ontario; commanded by A. Sinclair and Wm. M. Crane;
served in Comm. Chauncey's squadron, for some time as flagship,
against the English, Aug. 7th-11th, Sept. 11th, and Sept. 28th, 1813:
in the last action burst a gun, and had 27 killed and wounded. (A. W.
Greely, _in lit._, May 21st, 1895.)

General Putnam, a steamboat, 9

general remarks on New Spain, 786 to 806

Genesis, 182

Geneva, Ia., 23

Genoa, Wis., 49

Gens de Mer, 31

Gens des Feuilles, 118, 120, 197, 230, 258, 343, 345, 346, 347, 349

Gens des Feuilles Tir√©es, 345, 346, 347, 349

Gens du Lac, 69, 81, 86, 95, 197, 207, 267, 313, 314, 342, 345, 346,
347

Gens du Large, 81, 345

Geomys talpoides, 97

George, see Fort George

George III., lxxvi

George l., 161

George's bay, 771

Georgia, cx, 715

Georgian bay, lxxv

German ed. of Pike, xliv

Germany, xxviii

Gerrales, 629

Geulle Platte, Geuelle Platte, 169, 261, 347

Ghaymnichan is a form of Remnicha, which see

Ghisdhubar, 182

Ghost r., 733

Giard, Basile, 303

Giard, Giard's r., 37, 304, 347

Giaucthinnewug, 171

Gibraltar pt., lxxvii, xcii

Gieulle Platte, 351

Gihagatche, 591

Gilans, 748

Gila r., 637, 639, 644, 645, 646, 728, 730, 734, 735, 736, 741, 742,
756, 773; date of discovery 1538; crossed by Friar Marcos de Nizza in
1539; name appears on Kino's map, 1701; river also called Gila by
Venegas, 1757, and Font, 1777; this name for the river dates from
1697, though Gila was name of a province in 1630; first name of the
river was Rio del Nombre de Jesus, O√±ate, 1604; the name Rio de los
Apostoles is later, having been first applied by Father Kino in 1699

Gila river-system, 734, 735

Gilbert, Gilberttown, Ia., 25

Gilbert's isl. and ldg., 7

Gilead, Ill., 5

Gile√±o Apaches, 748

Gilfillan l., 336; named by Brower for Rev. J. A. Gilfillan, who held
first religious services known at Lake Itasca, May, 1881

Gilfillan, Rev. J. A., 166

Gilmer, J. F., 607

Gitchigomi l., 330

Givens, Maj., lxxxv, xcii, xciii

Gladstone, Mo., 375

Glaize cr., 375

Glasco, Kas., 408

Glasscock's isl., 8

glaucoma, 81

Glaucus isl., 8

Glazier l., 166

Glen Erie or Eyrie cr., 452

Glen Haven, Wis., 34

Glenn, Kas., 519

Glen's ldg., 370

Glen, The, 518, 519

Gloucester, a ship, xciv

Gnacsitares, 50, 68

God, 64, 182, 196, 353, 382, 432, 501, 573, 576, 587, 602, 657, 706,
801

Goddard's r., 306, 309

Godwin, Lt. A., cviii

Golden's cr., 15

gold mines, 759, 760, 761

Gomez, 604, 615

Gonzales, Tex., 703

Goode, Prof. G. Brown, preface

Good Help l., 65

Good Help r., 58

Good Hope r., trans. of Rio Grande de Buena Esperanza, which see

Goodhue co., Minn., 63, 64, 65, 69, 73

Goodhue, J. M., 65

Goodman's r., 362

Goodnight, Col., 459

Good or Ninnescah r., 549

Good Road, a chf., 86

Good Sight mts. and pk., 638

Good Sparrow Hunter, a chf., 85

Goodwin, see Godwin

Goodwin, Gov. John N., 727

Goodwin's isl., 96

Goose bay, 70

Goose isl., 153

Goose r., 97

Gorden, Pvt. Wm., 1, 359, 360, 432, 482, 490, 510, 845, 854, 855

Gordon, Geo., 602

Gordon's bay, 41

Gordon's ferry, 28

gorget, 586

Goths, 632

Gouelle Platte, 169

Gove co., Kas., 404

government of New Biscay, 768, 769

government of New Mexico, 754

Governor Tompkins, a ship, lxxxiii

Gove sta., Col., 483

Graeton, see Greaton

Grafton, Ill., 2, 5

Graham, Col. J. D., 644

Graham, D., 25, 238

Graham, H. R., 833

Granada, Col., 442

Granada cr., 442

Granada sta., N. M., 636

Grand Auglaise cr., 375

Grand ca√±on, Ark r., 462, 466, 476, 477, 478, 479, 847

Grand ca√±on, Colorado r., 730, 731, 732, 735

Grand chute, Fox r., Wis., 299

Grand copper mines, 637

Grand Duchy of Nassau, 452

Grande Avenue, Miss. r., 175

Grande de Santiago r., 719

Grande √éle, 194

Grand Encampment, 59, 60, 205

Grand Encampment isl., 60

Grande Prairie Mascotin, 22

Grande r., see Rio Grande and Rio del Norte

Grande Rivi√®re au Vase or Vaseuse, 369

Grand fk. of Osage r., 383, 513

Grand fk. or Solomon r., 421

Grand fks. of Ark. r., 445, 451, 463

Grand isl., Cass l., 157, 158

Grand isl., La Crosse, 51

Grand Isle, one of Pike's Beaver isls., 194, 262

Grand Kakalin, Kaukauna, Konimee, 299, 300

Grand Lac, 30, 310

Grand Marais, 75, 310, 342, 348

Grand Osage Inds. or village, 381, 385, 386, 387, 389, 390, 391, 392,
393, 394, 529, 530, 531, 532, 541, 550, 551, 555, 558, 562, 563, 566,
576, 579, 582, 590, 591

Grand Osage r., see Osage r.

Grand Pawnees, 412, 413, 449, 450, 451, 532, 542, 544, 583, 590, 591

Grand pk., 456, 457, 458

Grand Pest, Peste, a chf., 566, 586, 588

Grand Portage, 188, 326

Grand Rapids, Itasca co., Minn., 137, 146

Grand raps., in Miss. r., Itasca co., Minn., 142, 143, 144, 145, 321

Grand raps., or Sauk raps., 100, 193, 315, 356

Grand r., a cr. in Wis., 301

Grand r., a name of the Miss. r., 288

Grand r., br. of Colorado r., 471, 479, 524, 596, 732

Grand r., br. of Osage r., 379, 382, 540

Grand r. or Cottonwood r., 402

Grand r. or Neosho r., 397, 398, 399, 400, 401, 515, 541, 552, 556,
557

Grand Saline r., in Kas., 405, 420, 422, 545, 586

Grand Saline r. or Cimarron r., 552, 553, 554, 555

Grand Saline r. or Newsewtonga r., 552

Grange, La or The, 70, 205, 308, 356

Granger co., Tenn., liii

Granite cr., 727, 734

Granite gulch and sta., Col., 471

Granite mt., 730

Grant co., Kas., 439

Grant co., N. M., 638

Grant co., Wis., 37

Grant, Mr., of N. W. Co., 133, 136, 137, 139, 140, 142, 143, 144, 146,
155, 156, 175, 176, 180, 184, 189, 190, 191, 261

Grant's house, 142, 144, 145, 146, 280

Grant's pra., 21, 22, 211

Grape cr., cx, 462, 463, 482, 483, 484, 487, 489, 490, 491, 847

Grape sta., Col., 483

grapevines, 681

Gratiot, Chas., 10

Gravel or Gravois cr., 374, see Big, Grand, Little, Upper

Gravelly isl., 297

Gravel r. of Pike, 512, see Big, Little

Grave r., 71

Graveyard cr., 443

Gravis cr., 374

Gravois Mills, Mo., 375

Grayback mt., 492, 493

Gray, Capt. A., xxvi, xxvii

Gray co., Kas., 437, 438, 440

Gray Horse cr., 556

Gray, Prof. A., 39

Greaser cr., 491

Greasy cr., 369

Great American Desert, 733

Great Bend, Kas., 359, 420, 424, 425, 426, 427, 429, 436, 441, 443,
518, 522, 539, 548

Great bend of Ark. r., 408, 425, 436, 521, 547

Great bend of Miss. r., 163

Great Britain, 213, 803, and passim

Great Cape Gray, 5

Great Crow, a chf., 85

Greater Ultimate Reservoir Bowl, 164, so named by Brower, the area in
which the Miss. r. arises to flow into West Arm of Lake Itasca

Great Gravel cr., 375

Great Kaukauna, 299

Great Lakes, 3, 24, 35, 72, 294, and see their names

Great Macoketh r., 28, 293

Great Marsh or March, 75

Great Morasses, see Gatchi Betobeeg

Great Northern R. R., 167

Great North r., 816, see Rio Grande

Greaton, Capt. R. H., xxvi, xxvii

Great Osage r., 385, see Osage r. and Marais des Cygnes r.

Great r., 288, 289, is the Miss. r.

Great r. of the Couhatchatte Nation, Verendrye, 1737, is the Missouri

Great Saline r., in Kas., 405, 420, 423, 545

Great Salt l., 732, 733, 738

Great Spirit, 198, 256, 258, 265

Great Spirit l., 314

Great Wabiscihouwa, 44

Great Western Ry., xc

Greely, Gen. A. W., preface, xlviii, cx, 470

Green bay, 3, 24, 31, 297, 298, 299, 338, 340

Green Bay, Ia., 18

Green Bay, Wis., 298, 299

Greenbush, N. Y., lxx

Green co., Mo., 380

Greenhorn mts., 452

Greenhorn r., 451, 488, 490

Green isl., Green bay, 298

Green isl., Mo. r., 357

Green Lake co., Wis., 301

Green l., Minn., 97

Green l., Wis., 301

Green Leaf r., 81

Green, Mrs., cvii

Green mts., 733

Green Prairie tp., Minn., 124, 125

Green r., br. of Colorado r., 479, 732, 733

Green r., br. of Minnesota r., 77, 79

Green's bottom and chute, 362

Greenville, O., xxvii, 438

Greignon, Greinnor, Greinway, Greinyea, 181, 194, compare Grignon

Gregg, Dr. Josiah, 394, 398, 410, 424, 437, 439, 444, 446, 457, 463,
480, 482, 496, 517, 518, 521, 553, 558, 613, 633, 635, 636, 641, 650,
651, 652, 653, 737, 739, 763, 764

Gregory, Morrison co., Minn., 122

Gregory's ldg., 12, 13

Grenadier pt., lxxxiii

Grey, see Gray, Capt. A.

Grey Cloud, Grey Cloud isl. and sl., 174

Greysolon du Luth, Le Sieur D., 70, 312

Griegos, N. M., 617

Griffith, a deserter, 687, 688

Grignon, Augustin, living 1859, then oldest inhabitant of Wis.; see
Tass√©, I., p. 1, portrait

Grignon, Louis, 181

Grignon, Mr., 139

Grijalva, 718

Grimes isl., 6

Grindstone cr., 370

Griswold, Mo., 365

Grollet, Jacques, or Grolee, Santiago, was among those who conspired
to kill La Salle in 1687; was at Santa F√©, N. M., 1696; Bernalillo, N.
M., married Elena Galvegos in 1699, and was living in 1705

Groseilliers, 295, 296; Groseilliers l. in Itasca basin named for him
by Brower

Groshong, Grosjean, Jacob, 367

Gross Calumet, a chf., 347

Grosse Isle, 555

Gros Ventres, 171, 344

Grotto l., 200

Ground Apple pra., 27

Grouse cr., 549

Growler, a ship, lxxxiii

Grozayyay, see Groseilliers

Guachoya, 288

Guadalajara, Guadalaxara, audience, archbishopric, administration,
city, or State, 718, 719, 720, 723, 726, 755, 765, 774, 786, 800

Guadalajara, Spain, 719

Guadalquivir r. The Rio Grande was named Rio Guadalquiver at
confluence of Rio Conchos by Friar Augustin Rodriguez or Ruiz, on
Chamuscado's expedition of 1581

Guadalupe, Col., 596

Guadalupe Hidalgo treaty, 644, 645, 646

Guadalupe mts., 631, 736

Guadalupe, Guadelupe r., 696, 697, 703, 705, 780, 781, 782

Guadiana, 764

Guagarispa is Arizpe

Guajuquilla, Mex., 670, 671, 672, 673, 770

Gualamalia, see Guatemala

Gualpi, 731, 743, see Walpi

Guanabal, Guanabel r., 677, 678, 681

Guanajuato, Guanaxuato, administration, city, or State, 718, 719, 720,
721, 723, 724

Guatemala, Guatimalia, 718, 722, 726

Guaxequillo, 670, 672, 762, 770

Guaymas, 770, 771

Guelle Plat, 169

Guerin, a Mr., 51, 295

Guerin, Jean, 296

Guerin, Vital, 75, see Tass√©, II., pp. 1-29, portrait

Guerra, Father A., 619, 621, 622

Guerrero, Don Rey de, 682

Guerrero, Guerro, Mex., 691

Guerrero, State, 718, 721, 722

Gueule Platte, 156, 169, 335, 351

Guin's cr., 6

Guipaulavi is Shupaulovi

Guipu is a form of the native name of the Tihua pueblo, Santo Domingo,
N. M.

Gulf of California, 523, 637, 641, 644, 705, 718, 726, 731, 734, 735,
747, 756, 762, 770, 771, 772, 774, 791

Gulf of Mexico, 164, 165, 302, 310, 321, 523, 560, 641, 642, 644, 682,
690, 696, 705, 707, 708, 709, 718, 722, 724, 729, 781, 782, 791

Gulf of St. Lawrence, 310, 353

Gull isl., 297

Gull l., 134

Gull r., 129, 334

Gull River sta., Minn., 129

Guloo, Don H., 671, 683, 686

Gulph, see Gulf

Gunnison, Capt. J. W., 408, 425, 433, 437, 439, 491, 733, 734

Gunnison, Col., 469

Gunnison r., 466, 467, 468, 471, 596, 732

Guodiana, Lieut., 710, 712

Gusman family, 719, 729

gutta serena, 81

Guttenberg channel, 34

Guttenberg, Ia., 34

Guyagas spr., 652

Guyamas, 771

Guy Fawkes, cvi

Guzman l., 650

Guzman, N. B., 719

Guzzler's gulch, 429

Gwin's cr., 6

Gypsum City, Kas., 403, 404

Gypsum cr., 403, 404


H

Hacienda de Abajo, 682

Hacienda de Cienega Grande, 682

Hacienda de Dolores, 671, 672

Hacienda del Petrero, 653

Hacienda de Patos, 683, 684

Hacienda de San Jos√© de Pelayo, 673

Hacienda de San Lorenzo, 681, 777

Hacienda Encina, 687

Hacienda Poloss, 683

hackmetack, 319

Hackley's chute and isl., 13

Hacuqua is Zu√±ian name of Aco or Acoma, according to Cushing

Haddock sl., 57

Hadley cr., 6

Haha Inds., 348

Halcheduma, see Jalchedum

Haldemand cr., 400

Haldimand, U. C., xci

Hale l., 143

Half Dozen, a chf., 88

Half Moon battery, lxxvii, lxxxviii

Half Moon cr., 471

Half Moon l., 131, 177

Halfway house, 456

Half-way r., 559

Hall, Edwin S., 167, 336, opened first road in Itasca l. basin for G.
L. O. survey in 1875

Halley, Col. A., 384, settled about 1839 at Halley's Bluff

Halley's Bluff, 384, on S. side of Osage r., in N. E. ¬º of Sect. 34,
T. 38, R. 30, 2 m. S. of West Bellevoir

Hallico r., 380

Hall l., near Itasca l., named for E. S. Hall by Brower

Hallock, Chas., 326

Hallock, Minn., 326

Hall's ferry, 361

Halona, 742

Ham, a mythical person, 56

Hamburg bay, 6

Hamburg, Ill., 5, 6

Hamburg, Mo., 362, 363

Hamilton, a ship, lxxxiii

Hamilton co., Kas., 441

Hamilton, Gov. H., xcviii

Hamilton, Ill., 14, 15

Hamilton, Lt.-Col. Wm. S., 36

Hamilton, Tex., 711

Hamish is Jemez

Hammond, Kas., 394

Hammond's chute, 52

Hamookhabi is same word as Mohave

Hampton, Gen., lxv

Hampton, Ill., 25

Hamtramck, Col. J. F., xxvi

Hamtramck, J. F., xxvi

Hamtramck, Mich., xxvi

Hancock co., Ill., 13, 15, 17, 18

Hancock isl., above Dayton, Minn.

Hancock's bottom, 363, 364

Hanging Kettle l., 135

Hannibal and St. Jo. R. R., 8

Hannibal, Mo., 8, 9, 10, 211

Hano, 744

Hanover, N. H., lxxxi

Hapita, 744

Harding, Kas., 396

Hardscrabble, Col., 453

Hardscrabble cr., 462, 488

Harkness cr., 6

Harland, Kas., 440

Harlan, Dr. Richard, 771

Harmon's Journal, 278

Harmony Mission, Mo., 385

Harpe, B. de la, 77, 78, 79

Harper and Brothers, 553, 554

Harper cr., Kas., 399

Harper, F. P., preface

Harper's Ferry, Va., 41

Harper's Gazetteer, 554

Harper sl., 41, 42

Harper's Magazine, 326

Harriet l., 90

Harrison, ex-Prest. B., preface, xxxii

Harrison, Gen. Wm. H., xxx, 11, 222

Harrison, J. C. S. or Symmes, xxx, xxxii

Harrison's ldg., 369

Harrison, W. H., xxxii, xxxiii

Harris sl., 28

Harrower, H. D., 327, 333, 336

Hart, see Carey and

Hart, a person, 60

Hartsell's, Hartzell's ranch, 468

Hasatch, 745

Hasca for Itasca l., in Schoolcraft, 1855

Hashakedatungar, 526

Hasisadra, 182

Hassler l., 153, 155

Hastain, Mo., 377

Hastings, Ill., 4

Hastings, Minn., 65, 72, 73

Hasty, Minn., 99

Hatch, E. A. C., 87

Hatchet chute, 4

Hatch sta., 638

Hat isl., 298

Hauicu, see Havico

Hause, Major, 76

Hauteurs des Terres, 164, 165

Haut Lac de C√®dre Rouge or aux C√®dres Rouges, 157, 356

Havasupai, 731, is a Walapai word from _havesu_, "down in," and _pai_,
"people," with ref. to residence in the bottom of the ca√±on. Ewing in
the Great Divide, Dec., 1892, p. 203, says it is from _ahah_, "water,"
_visua_, "green," and _pai_, with ref. to verdure of the place where
these Indians live. The etym. which makes the word a corruption of Sp.
_agua_, "water," _azul_, "blue," and _pais_, "country," is fictitious:
see Aguazul Inds. and Yavasupai Inds., also Jasquevilla

Havico, Havicu, Hawiku, Hawikuh, 742, 15 m. S. W. of Zu√±i, first
discovered of the seven cities of Cibola, and the original "Cibola" of
Marcos de Nizza, 1539; taken by Coronado, 1540; abandoned, 1679

Hawilhamook r. is Bill Williams' fk. of the Colorado

Hawkeye cr., 19

Hawk that Chases Walking, a chf., 85

Hay cr., br. of Cannon r., 70

Hay cr., br. of Miss. r., Crow Wing and Aitkin cos., Minn., 135, 175

Hay cr., br. of Miss. r., Morrison co., Minn., 103

Hayden, Dr. F. V., 443, 466, 483, 491, 495

Hayden's pass, 475

Hay, Kas., 396

Head, Mr. L., 495, 496

Heagler's ldg., 361

Heart of Fire, a chf., 349

Heart of the Red Eagle, a chf., 347

Heart of the Town, a chf., 591

Heathcote, Lt.-Col., xcii

Hebe, 620

Hector, F. L., 657

Hedgehog harbor, 297

Height of Land, 164

Height of Land l., 317, 318

Heitman, F. B., Heitman's Register, xxii, lxxx, lxxxvi, lxxxviii

Helena isl., 295

Helena, Wis., 302

heli[oe]cias, 741

Helix l., 150

Helvetius on Man, 801

hemlock, 320

Henderson co., Ill., 18, 19

Henderson, Martin, 691, 692, 693

Henderson r., 20, 291

Hennepin Bicentenary, 91: see report in full, with speeches, etc., in
Minn. Hist. Coll., VI., pt. 2, 1891, pp. 29-74

Hennepin co., Minn., 94, 96, 97

Hennepin, L., 3, 5, 8, 13, 23, 35, 51, 58, 64, 65, 68, 70, 71, 72, 77,
81, 91, 92, 95, 96, 288, 289, 309, 313, 314, 329

Hennepin r., 163, see Wakomiti r.

Henry, A., jun., 168

Henry, A., sen., 188

Henry co., Mo., 371, 381

Henry, Geo., 361, 362, 374, 375, 393, 568

Henry VIII., 599

Herald, see Connecticut and New York do.

Herault, Elizabeth, 296

Herculean Incunabula, 166

Hermann isl., 366

Hermann, Mo., 366

Hermanos, Mex., 686, 687, 688

Hermosillo, 770, 771

Hernando de Soto l., 164, named by Brower with implied ref. to the
wooded shores (Hernand of the Grove)

Herrera, Capt., 709

Herrera, Gov. Don S., 698, 699, 701, 702, 703, 704, 710, 711, 786,
836, 839

Herring's cr., 468

Herron, N. M., 640

Hersey chute, 23

Heshota Oaquima is the Zu√±ian pueblo Kyakima

Heshota-uthla, see Hish-

Heth's cr., 429

He Who Drives Villages, a chf., 591

Heytman's ldg., 42

Hhemnicha, 70, is same word as Remnicha. Initial sound is strongly
aspirated, like _hr_ or _rh_, and was marked _h_ with a dot over it,
or double _h_, or _ch_ or letter _r_ was used in stead. The word is
compounded of _he_, hill, _mini_, water, and _cha_, wood

Hiawatha, 90

Hickory Apaches, 731

Hickory chute, 7

Hickory co., Mo., 380

Hickory pt., 520

Hidalgo, City of, 720

Hidalgo, State of, 718, 721, 722

Hidalgo y Costilla, Don M., 765

Hidatsas, 344

Hidden r., 289

Hiens, one, 714, 779, 780

hier[oe]cias, 741

hieroglyphics, 198, 199, 200

Hieronimo, 770

Hietans, 412, 706

Higgins', Col., 469

High cr., br. of Little Platte r., 468

High cr., br. of Oil cr., 465

Highest pk., 459

High pra. of Pike, 26

High Rock r., 67

Hila is Gila

Hill, A. J., preface, 29, 70, 107, 166, 167, 199, 201, 256, 328

Hillock of the Dead, 356

Hill pt., see Point Hill

Hillsborough, N. M., 637

Hilton, Lieut., see Hinson

Hinckley's bend, 363

Hinson, Lieut. John, of Mississippi, second lieut. 2d Infantry Feb.
16th, 1801, honorably discharged June 1st, 1802, is probably the
Lieut. "Hilton" of xxvi, xxviii

Hishota-uthla, preferably Heshota-uthla, 742

Historical Register, xxii, see Heitman

History of New Mexico, 755, 756

Hobbs br. of Gypsum cr., 403, 404

Hodge, F. W., preface

Hogan-wanke-kin, 72

Hog isl., 18

Hogle's cr., 380

Hogtown, 5

hog, wild, 697

Hohang r., 72

Hohenzollern, Prince of, lxvi

Hohtchunhgrah, 39

Hoka, Hokah r., 49, 50

Holcombe, R. I., preface, 8, 10, 365, 379, 385, 390

Hole in the Day I., a chf., 134

Holland cr., 403

Holloway isl., 379

Hollys, Col., 441, 442

Holmes isl., 361

Holton, Maj. A., xxiii, xxx

Holy Cross l. and r., 71

Holy Ghost, 182, 675

Holy Ghost bay, 706

Holy Ghost r., 288

Holy Ghost r., see Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, Bay of the, 444

Homan's park, 474

Homer chute, 55

Homer, Minn., 55

Hominy cr., 555

Homme Riche, 591

Hondo r., 696, 697

Honduras, 726

Honey cr., or Camp cr. of Nicollet, Ill., 18

Honey cr., Pike co., Ill., 6

Honor√©, L. T., 222

Hook l., 147

Hook, Lieut. M., xxvi, xxviii

Hoosier cr., 399

Hoover, Mo., 394

Hopee, see Hopi

Hop Hollow, 2

Hopi, Hopituh, 744

Hoppock, Hopsock, Capt. J. L., lxxxvi

Horcasitas, Chihuahua, 667

Horcasitas, Sonora, 773

Horicon marshes, 24

horn frog, 431

Horn l., 159

Hornos, Mex., 677

Horse cr., br. of Grape cr., 485, 487

Horse cr., or Dry cr., 446

Horse mt. or range, N. M., 635, 637, 638

Horseshoe bend, 57

Horseshoe isl., 297

Horseshoe l., Minn., 145

Horseshoe l., Mo., 386

horses of the Pawnees, 533

horses, wild, 433, 435, 436

Hosford, E. and E., 328

Hotca√±gara, 39

Hot Spring, N. M., 816

Hough, lxxix

Houghton, Dr. D., 170, 328, 331

Houghton, Mr. J., 607

Houghton's flats, 98

Houho Otah, 347

Houire, L. T., 222, 223

House, Capt. J., lxii

houses of the Pawnees, 533

House, Thos., liv

Houston co., Minn., 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 206

Houston co., Tex., 708

Howard bend, 362

Howard co., Mo., 367

Howard cr., 165, named by Brower for Mrs. Jane S. Howard, dau. of
Schoolcraft

Howard, L. O., preface

Howard's isl., 6

Howbert, Col., 465

Howchungera, 39

Howell's isl., 362

Howell sta., Kas., 437

Howe's Hist. Coll. Ohio, 438

Hualpee, Hualapais, 736, 744

Hubbard co., Minn., 128, 162, 164, 318

Hubbard cr., 433

Hucaritspa is Arizpe

Huddleston, Pvt., Solomon, 1, 115, 359, 360, 378, 432, 548, 845, 854,
855

Hudson Bay Co., 167, 280, 281

Hudsonian waters, 164, 263, 328

Hudson's bay, 263, 277, 327

Huerfano co., Col., 488, 489, 491, 492

Huerfano mts., 448

Huerfano park, 448, 491

Huerfano pass, 448

Huerfano r., 448, 451, 463, 482, 488, 489, 490, 491, 492, 494

Huertas, N. M., 633

Huetbatons, 312, 313

Hughes, A. E., 429

Hughes, J. T., 333, 429, 446, 631, 636, 640, 652, 655, 673, 746, 747,
764

Hughes, Lt. or Maj. D., xxvi, xxviii, 213

Hughes pt., 296

Huillier, M. l', 77, 78

Humber r., lxxv, lxxvii, lxxxiii

Humboldt, A. von, xxxix, xli, xlii, xliii, 553, 631, 681, 718, 792

Humphrey's cr., 373

Hungo Pavi, 630

Hunt, Brigade Major, ci

Hunt, Col. T., lxii, 575, 581

Hunter, Dr., 473, 704

Hunt, Geo., lxii

Hunt, Thos., lxii

Hurd and Houghton, xlvi

Huron Inds., lxxv, 296

Huron, Ia., 21

Huron sl., 20

Hurricane cr., isl., and ldg., 9

Hurricane isl. and settlement, 7, 8, 9, 211

Hutchinson, Kas., 424, 548

Hu-y√°, 118

Hydrocephalus l., 331

Hymie, see Guloo

hypsitaphy, 73


I

Iaba Waddik, 157, see Buck

Ibarra, Don M. de, 680, 682

Ibarra, F. de, 759

Iberville, Pierre le Moyne, Sieur d', 77, 78, 288, 713, 714

Ichesohungar, 591

Ida cr., 64, 69

Ietans, 407, 412, 571, 632, 744, see Comanche Inds., Tetaus

Igomi l., 330

Ihanctoua, see Yancton

Ihanktonwans, 343

√éle, see Isle

√éle √† Loutre, 366

Ilhuicamina, 737

Ilinois, Illenois, Illin, Illini, Illinois, etc., Inds., 3, 339, 559

Illinoets l., 296

Illinois, cx, 531, 603, 818, 825

Illinois r., br. of Ark. r., 558

Illinois r., br. of Miss. r., 2, 3, 4, 13, 35, 64, 68, 77, 93, 255,
289, 560, 714

Iminijaska, 75

Immaculate Conception r., 289

Imnijaska, see Iminijaska

Incunabula, Herculean, 166

Independence Hall, cxiii

Independence, Kas., 555

Independence, Mo., 379, 424, 517, 518, 519

India, 738

Indianapolis, Ind., xxxiii

Indiana State, cx, cxi

Indian agencies, 748

Indiana Terr., xxi, 11

Indian Bureau, 238, 553, 554

Indian conspiracy, 768

Indian cr., br. of Big Blue cr., 519

Indian cr., br. of Big Gravel cr., 375

Indianola, Tex., 697

Indian rice, 38

Indians, see names of tribes and chfs.

Indian territory, former, 518, 519

Indian Terr., present, 400, 480, 549, 552, 559, 706, 748

Infant Mississippi, 165, 167

Ingalls, J. J., 438

Ingalls, Kas., 438, 439

Ingersoll, historian, lxxix

Inglebert de Brouisseau, J. Le F. d', 214

Ingleman ca√±on, 452, 456

Ingouville, Lieut., xciii

Ingram, Pvt., 332

Inies, 709

insurrection, Spanish, 804

instructions to Kennerman, 245

instructions to Pike, 562, 563, 564, 565, 566

Interior Provinces of New Spain, 718

Interlaken, Col., 472

Internal Provinces of New Spain, 719, 726, 727 and continuously to 786

interpreters, 286

inventory of papers seized, 817, 818, 819

Inyan Bosndata r., 67

Inyantonka l., 343

Iola, Kas., 397

Ioua r., 48

Iowa City, 23

Iowa district, 45

Iowa gulch, Col., 471

Iowa Inds., 23, 292, 339, 346, 347, 361, 526, 551

Iowa isl., 4

Iowa r., 21, 22, 23, 211, 292, 293, 337, 339, 347, 348, 355, and see
Upper Iowa r.

Iowa sl., 20

Iowa State Hist. Dept., xlix

Iowa Terr., 45

Iron Knoll, 465

Iron mt., 492

Iron Springs, 447

Iroquois, lxxiv, lxxvi, 288, 351

irrigating canal, 434

irrigation, 740

Irving l., 161, 331

Irving's Astoria, 361

Irving, Washington, 367

Isabel cr., 63

Isabel l., 73

Isan l., 313

Isantanka, 148

Ishkode-wabo r., 314

Ishmaelites, 705

Iskatappe, 409, 421, 542, 551, 591

Iskode Wabo, 96

Island cr., feeder of Itasca l., named by Brower as falling in opp.
Schoolcraft's isl.

Island l., 317

Island of Ozawindib, 158

Island of the Sun, 103

Island of the Turn, 356

Island rap., 131

Islati, 313

Isle au D√©tour, 297

Isle Br√ªl√©, 297, 356

Isle de Corbeau, 128, 279, 316, 356

Isle de Pou, des Poux, 297, 356

Isle du D√©tour, 356

Isle, G. de L', 71

Islenois, 3

Isle Pel√©e, 65, 71, 73, 77

Isle Racro, 297

Isles, Lake of the, 94

Isleta, N. M., 621, 623, 643, in Pike's time was the largest
settlement between Albuquerque and Belen; pop. 419 Inds. and 378
Spaniards in 1805

Isletas, bet. Tex. and Coahuila, 692

Isleta sta., N. M., 621, 626

Isleta, Tex., 643

Islets, in Rio Grande, 692

Isle Vermillion, 298, 356

Isle Verte, 297

Islinois, 3

Israel, 526

Issanati, Issanti, Issanoti, Issaqui, 313

Issati, 71, 313

Issati, Lake of the, 95

Issati, River of the, 95

Issayati, 313

Isthmus of Darien, 522

Itasca, canoe voyage to Lake, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167

Itasca co., Minn., 142, 143, 144, 159

Itasca l., 124, 152, 158, 159, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167,
289, 326, 328, 329, 331, 332, 335

Itascan basin, 322, 331

Itascan sources, 151, 159, 329

Itasca State Park, 164, 329

Itaska l., 96

Itoye, 347

Iturbide, Emperor, 719

Ives, Lt. J. C., should have been named, 645

Ivison, Blakeman, Taylor and Co., 326, 327

Ixtaccihuatl, 723

Izatys, 312, 313

Izdubar, 182


J

Jabezua, see Javesua

Jackson, Col., 448

Jackson, Corp. J. R., 1, 359, 360, 432, 482, 490, 502, 505, 510, 845,
850, 853, 854, 855

Jackson co., Ia., 27, 28

Jackson co., Mo., 518

Jackson co., Wis., 52

Jacquez, Mr., 650

Jacuihu, 742

Jah-pinuniddewin, "place of violent deaths," given by Schoolcraft,
1832, as origin of Pinidiwin

Jahveh, priests of, 41

Jalchedum, 735, not identified there, were the Yuman tribe otherwise
known as Alchedoma

Jalisco, 719, 723, 759, 774

Jamaica, 576

James I., 182

James, a writer, lxxix

James, Dr. Edwin, 29, 457

Jameson isl., 98

James' pk., 457

Jamestown, Kas., 408

Jamestown ldg., 360

Janos, 770, 819

Japhet, 56

Jaquesila r., on Hugh Murray's map, 1829, see Jasquevilla r.

Jaquesua, see Javesua

Jara cr., 494, 497

Jarales, N. M., 629, see Xaxales

Jarrot, see Jearreau, and in Tass√©, I., p. 147

Jarvis, Capt., xciv

Jarvis cr., 424, 522

Jarvis, Minn., 318

Jasquevilla r., 731, see Javesua

Jauflione, Jauflioni, Jaustioni, Justioni r., 9, 10, 11, 290, 291, 339

Jaune r., 73, 355

Javesua, Jabezua, first in Garces, 1775-76, as name of the river in
the ca√±on in which the Havasupai Inds. live, is origin of the names
Jaquesua, Jaquesila, Jasquevilla, etc., which are, therefore, not
connected with Jicarilla, but with Havasupai, which is also found as
Havesua, etc.

Jaway r., 22

Jay, Mr., 247

Jearreau, Mr., 206, 207

Jefferson barracks, 358

Jefferson co., Ind., 332

Jefferson co., Tenn., liv

Jefferson r., br. of Ark. r., 552, 553

Jefferson r., br. of Mo. r., xlix

Jefferson, Thos., xxix, lxiii, lxx, 229, 271, 287, 388, 543, 704, 705,
734, 853

Jeffreon, Jeffrion r., 10, 11, 290

Jehovah, Jehovist, 182

Jemez mts., 615, 616

Jemez, N. M., 604, 615, 737

Jemez r., 615, 616, 629, 745

Jemez trail, 605

Jena, lxvi

Jennesse, Mr., 194, 262

Jeronime, Jeronimo, 770

Jersey co., Ill., 2, 3

Jerseyman, lix

Jesuitism, 501

Jesuit Relations, 329, 349

Jesuits, 30, 765

Jesus, 620

Jetans, 412

Jeunesse, Mr. La, 194, 262

Jewell co., Kas., 409, 410

Jewell, Kas., 420

Jewett map, 324

Jews, 182

Jicarilla Apaches, 731, 748; the name means "little baskets,"
referring to what they make

Jicarilla mts., 631, 731

Jimenez, Chihuahua, 670

Jimenez r., Tamaulipas, 724

Jimenez, Se√±., 647

Jimmy or Jimmy's Camp, 453

Jimmy's Camp cr., 452

Jo Daviess co., Ill., 27, 28

Joe Bowers, cxii

Jogues, 349

Johnny cr., 443

Johnson co., Kas., 519

Johnson, Maj. E., 425

Johnson's cr., Stearns co., Minn., with town site St. Augusta about
its mouth

Johnston and Ward, 554

Johnston, A. R., 637

Johnston, Francis, 683

Johnston, Geo., 328, 331

Johnston, J. E., 645

Johnston's Atlas, 554

Johnston's l., 128

Joint Commission, 644

Joliet l., 163

Joliet, Louis, 3, 13, 288, 294, 295, 296, 394, 559; b. Qu√©bec, Sept.
21st, 1645, d. May, 1700

Jollyville, Ia., 18

Jones, A. J., 163

Jones, Capt. C. G., lxxxii

Jones' cr., 163

Jones, Hon. Wm., xcviii

Jordan, a cr. in Minn., 70

Jordan, a r. in Utah, 738

Jornada del Muerto, 634, 635, 636, 639, 739

Josephine l., 166, named in 1888 by Brower

Joutel, 713, 779, 780

Jouy, Comte de, lxxv

Jowa, Jowah, Joway r., 22

Joya ca√±on, 629, 630, 632

Joya Grant, N. M., 628, 631, and see La Joya

Joya, Mex., 685

Joyita, N. M., 630

Juarez, Ciudad or City of, in Chihuahua, 641

Juarez, in Coahuila, 689

Juchereau de St. Denis, L., 714

Julia, a ship, lxxxiii

Julia l., 159, 328

Julian source, 151, 157, 279, 328, 329

Julimes, 668

Jumas for Yumas on Humboldt's map

jumping-off place, 518, 519

Junction City, Kas., 404, 405

Juniper mts., 730, 736

Juniperus virginiana, 157

Junot, Chas., 818

Jupiter, 390, 414, 482, 564, 576

Justioni r., 10


K

Kabekona l. and r., 152

Kabe-Konang l., 334

Kabikons falls, 147

Kabikons rap., 144

Kabitawi r., 98

Kabukasagetewa l., 147

Kachiwasigon, 347

Kadewabedas, 176

Kadikomeg l., 174, 334

Kadowaubeda, 176

Kaginogumag l., 128

Kagiwan r., 128

Kagiwegwon is Schoolcraft's name, 1855, for Crow Wing r.

Kahra, Kahras, 343, 348, 349

Kaibab plateau, see Bacorelli

Kaichibo Sagitowa l., 128

Kakabika, Schoolcraft, 1855, or Kakabikons rap., 144

Kakakibons falls, Schoolcraft, 1832 and 1855, are his Little-falls
raps., near Lake Itasca

Kakalin, 299, 340

Kallmeyer's ldg., 367

Kamanitiguia, 251, 280

Kamdiyohi co., Minn., 97

Kametonga l., Schlc., 1855, is Sandy l., Aitkin co., Minn.

Kaminaigokag r., 324

Kankakee r., 3

Kankana, Kankarma, Kankauma r., 299, 300

Kanizotygoga-sibi, 103

Kans, see Kansas

Kansas Agency, 550

Kansas and Colorado R. R., 424

Kansas City and Southern R. R., 383

Kansas City, Clinton, and Springfield R. R., 383

Kansas City, Fort Scott, and Gulf R. R., 395, 519

Kansas City, Mo., 517, 518, 519

Kansas Diminished Reserve, 521

Kansas Inds., 381, 391, 401, 402, 407, 410, 412, 413, 414, 417, 418,
525, 526, 536, 544, 559, 562, 563, 576, 578, 583, 584, 585, 586, 590,
591, 706, 757, 846

Kansas Ind. trail, 401, 402

Kansas r., li, 402, 404, 405, 408, 412, 420, 423, 424, 473, 515, 516,
517, 518, 519, 523, 532, 541, 542, 543, 544, 545, 546, 560, 584, 591,
834, 837

Kansas, State, cx, 395 (entered) continuously to 441 (left), 518, 519

Kansas State Historical Society, xlvii

Kansas Trust Lands, 521

Kanses, Kanzes, etc., see Kansas

Kapitotigaya-sibi, 97

Kapoja, Kaposia, 40, 74, 85, 86, 182, 199, 342, 348

Kapoo, see Santa Clara, N. M.

Kappa, 559

Kapp, F., lxvi

Kapuka Sagatawag is rendered by Schlc., 1855, translated Abrupt
Discharges

Kapukasagitowa l. and r., 152, 153

Karamone, 266, 268, 347

Karishon r., 97

Kasagaskwadjimekang l., 153

Kaskaskia, Kaskaskias, 28, 222, 339, 500, 570, 603

Kathio, 313

Kaukauna falls, 299

Kaumains, 412

Kaw, see Kansas

Kawaiko, 745

Kawakomik, Kawakonuk r., 99

Kawanibio-sibi, 99

Kawasidjiwong r., 306

Kawkawnin, 299

Kaw rap., 385

Kay, Alex., 338, see also Tass√©, I. pp. 338-340

Kayaways, 846, see Kiowa Inds.

Kearney co., Kas., 440, 441

Kearny, Gen. S. W., 429, 446, 607, 639, 727

Keating, Prof., 29, 37, 40, 41, 43, 51, 59, 66, 69, 70, 74, 77, 78,
79, 80, 86, 199, 310, 328, 330

Kecheahquehono r., 705

Kechepagano r., 171

Keeskeesedatpun l., 324

Kegwedzissag, 166, 334, 335

Keithsburg, Ill., 21

Kekebicaug√©, 123

Keleroy, Ia., 34

Keller's bar, 27

Keller's isl., 27

Kelly's isl., 5

Kemp's ldg., 361

Kendall, G. W., 739, 763

Kenistenos, 171

Kennerman, Sgt. Henry, 1, 98, 105, 119, 176, 178, 193, 221, 245, 359,
360, 362, 365, 393, 420, 570, 845, 854, 855

Kentucky, xxx, li, liii, lvi, cx, cxi, 691, 756, 758, 833

Keokuck, Keokuk, Ia., 2, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 211, 291

Keokuk l., 22, so called before 1838, as the site of Keokuk's first
village in Iowa, occupied by him about 1826-34. For his portrait, see
Catlin's pl. 280 and pl. 290

Keoxa, 348

Kera, Keran, see Keres

Kerelec, Gov., 213

Keres, Keresan, Keresans, 598, 604, 606, 615, 616, 617, 629, 630, 742,
743, 744, 745, 752

Kern, E. H., 734

Keswhawhay, 745

Ketchupawe, 742

Kettle cr., 42

Kettle hill, 53

Kettletas, Mr., 6

Kewaunee co., Wis., 298

Keweenaw bay, 296

Keychias, Keyes, 708

khoya, 118

Kiakima, see Kyakima

Kianawe, see Kyanawe

Kibby, Judge T., lvi

Kicapous r., 24

Kichais, 708

Kichi for Kitchi l., 159

Kichi Gummi, 310

Kickapoo, Kickapou Inds., 222, 526, 591

Kickapoo isl., 5

Kickapoo r., 24

Kigigad, 36

ki-han, 118

Kikassias, 28

killed and wounded at Fort York, xci

Killein, Killien, Killiou, Killieu Noir, Killeur Rouge, 118, 180, 198,
347

Killpecker cr., 164

Killroy, Kilroy, Ia., 34

Killow, 118

Kimberly is the place where the N. P. R. R. crosses Rice r.

King, Chas., liii

Kingdom of New Leon, 724

Kingdom of New Spain, 718, 719

King l., 74

King, Maj. Wm., lxxxvi, ciii

King of Mexico, 804

King, Prof. H., preface

King's isl., 8

Kingston, U. C., lxxii, lxxiii, xci, xcii, xciv, xcv, c

Kiniew is a form of the word Killeur: see under Killein, and _cf._
Masson, II. p. 316

Kinsley, Kas., 434

Kiosh, Kioshk r., 128, 129

Kiowa co., Col., 443

Kiowa co., Kas., 435

Kiowa, Comanche, and Wichita res., 748

Kiowa cr., 451

Kiowa Inds., 435, 468, 743, 846

Kiowa res., 412

Kioxa, 43

Kipesagi, Kipisagee, Kipy Saging, 36

Kirk, T. H., 54

Kiskahoo l. is Schoolcraft's name, 1820, for the first lake on the
Miss. r. above Cass l., also called by him Andrusia, _i. e._, Lake
Elliott Coues of Brower

Kitchemocummon is Harmon's form of the word Kitchimokomen

Kitchi Gummi, 330

Kitchimokomen, 148

Kitchi-sibi or Great r. is a name of the Miss. below the confluence of
the Leech Lake fk., 289

Kitihi for Kitchi l., 159

Kittson co., Minn., 326

Kiyuska, 43

Knife Inds., 313

Knife l., 313

Knife rap., cx, 104, 122

Knistenaux, 354

Knobby cr., 377

Knowlton, F. H., 39

Kohnina, see Cosnino ca√±on

Komtonggomog l. is a name of Sandy l., in Schoolcraft, 1820

Konamik, Schoolcraft, 1855, see Konimee

Konimee, 299

Konomee, Schoolcraft, 1820, see Konimee

Krider's bend, 6

Krider's isl., 6, 7

Kubba Kunna l., 161, 334

Kuhnbrook, Kas., 403

Kunersdorf, lxvi

Kurtzman, S., 107

Kuthumi, xxxii

Kwaiantikwokets, 744

Kwapas, 559, 560

Kwiwisens r., 153, 320, 334

Kyaways, 535, 537, 743, 745, 757

Kyakima, Kiakima, 742, is Pike's Cequimas, which see. The pueblo was
occupied before 1599, abandoned after 1680

Kyanawe, 742


L

Labadie's bottom and cr. or sl., 363

La Baie, Wis., 298, 290

La Bajada, N. M., 614

Labal, 288

Labardie, Mr., 579

La Barre, Gov. de, 72

La Baye, Wis., 298, 299

La Beesh r. is Schoolcraft's rendering in 1820 of Miss. r. above Cass
l.

Labeish, La Biche l., 158

La Biche r. is the Miss., as flowing from L. La Biche (Itasca) to L.
Bemidji

La Brule, 157, 347

Labusciere, Jos., 214

La Cadena, Mex., 674

La Cadena pass, 675

Lac √† la Biche, 158, 289

Lac √† la Crose, 150

Lac √† la Queue de Loutre, 317

Lac a Puckaway, 301

Lac au Sable, 137

Lac aux C√®dres Rouges, see Bas and Haut

Lac aux Ch√™nes, 147

Lac aux Sangsues, 153

Lac Buade, 313

Lac Butte des Morts, 300, 301, 340

Lac Chapala, 720

Lac Court Oreilles, 306

Lac de B[oe]uf, 302

Lac de Bon Secours, 65

Lac de Buade, 313

Lac de Cond√©, 310

Lac de Grosse Roche, 343, 344, 347

Lac de la Providence, 309

Lac de Sable, 120, 133, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141, 144, 191, 263, 280,
320, 321, 350, 351, 356

Lac des Assenipoils, 64

Lac des Buttes, 278

Lac des Claies is a name of Lake Simcoe

Lac des Issatis, 313

Lac des Mille Lacs, 312, 313, 314

Lac des Pleurs, 65

Lac des Prairies, 256

Lac des Puants, 300

Lac des Sioux, 313

Lac de Susma, 650

Lac de Timpanagos, 733, 738

Lac de Tracy, 310

Lac du Cayman, 673, 762

Lac du Sable, 173

Lace, Minn., 318

La Charbonni√®re, 361, 511

La Charette, Charrette, Mo., 361, 363, 364, 512

La Charette cr. and bottom, 364

La Chesnaye, A. de, 313

Lac La Beesh, la Biche, 158, 166, 327, 329

Lac la Crosse, 150

Lac la Folle, 163, see Pinidiwin l.

Lac la Folle of Morrison, 326, 327

Lac la Pluie, 347

Lac la Queue de Loutre, see Otter Tail l.

Laclede co., Mo., 375, 376

Laclede, P. L., 193, 213, 214, 215, 560

Laclede's village, 204, 214

Lac Macdon, 713

Lac Mille Lacs, 312

Lac Puckway, 356

Lac que Parle, 66

La Crescent, Minn., 51, 52

La Crosse co., Wis., 49, 52

La Crosse pra., 51

La Crosse r., 51, 58, 72, 305

La Crosse r., discharge of Ball Club l., 322

La Crosse, Wis., 49, 50, 51, 52, 206

Lac Rouge, 356

La Cruz, Chihuahua, 669

Lac Ste. Croix, 71

Lac Sang Sue, 152, 153, 240, 319, 350, 356

Lac Sapin, 320

Lac's pt., 364

Lac Sup√©rieur, 310

Lac Terrehaute, 317

Lac Travers, Traverse, 161, 331, and see Bemidji l.

Lacus Algonquiniorum, 31

Lacus F[oe]tentium, 31

Lacus Superior, 310

Lacus Superior Nicolleti, 165

Lac Vaseux, 302, 356

Ladron mts., 632

Lady of the Lake, a ship, lxxxiii

Lady's cr., 385

Lady, Wm., 385, early settler in Mo., a hatter, still living in Oregon

Lafayette co., Mo., 379

La Feuille, Fieulle, a chf., 43, 54, 208, 347, 348

La Fievre r., 29

La Folle l., 163

La Florida, Mex., 683, 684

La Fon, J., 578, 591

La Frontera, Tex., 643

La Fye, a chf., 43

La Garde, see Mont La Garde

Lagard l., 317

Lago de Chapala, 719, 720

Lago de la Condelaria, 650

Lago del Munto, 636

Lago de San Martin, 653

Lago de Tlahualila, 673

La Grain of Pike, 675, is perhaps F. _la grenade_, pomegranate

La Grange, Minn., 308

La Grange, Mo., 9, 11, 12, 205, 291

Laguna de Agua Verde, 776

Laguna de las Encinillas, 653

Laguna del Cayman, 673

Laguna del Muerto, Mex., 673, 677, 678, 681, 762, 776

Laguna del Muerto, N. M., 635, 636

Laguna de Parras, 677, 678, 681, 776

Laguna de Patos, 651

Laguna de Xacco, 673

Laguna, N. M., 630, 745, the pueblo established as late as 1700

La Jara cr., 494, 497

La Jeunesse, Mr., 194

La Joya de Cibolleta, N. M., 628

La Joya, N. M., new, 629, 631

La Joya, N. M., old, 628, 629

La Joyita, N. M., 630

La Junta, Col., 446, 447

La Harpe, B. de, 65, 71

La Harpe, Kas., 397

La Hontan, Baron, 35, 49, 50, 64, 67, 68, 69, 71, 80

La Hontan r., 50, 67, 68

Lake, see names of lakes, also Lac, Lago, and Laguna, besides the
following

Lake Champlain, lxxii, lxxiii

Lake City, on Lake Pepin, 62, 63, 64

Lake co., Col., 471

Lake cr., feeder to Twin lakes, Col., 472

Lake de Sable, see Lac de Sable and Sandy l.

Lake Erie, 351

Lake fk. of Ark. r., 471

Lake Huron, lxxv, 30, 295, 340, 351

Lake Itaska, 96. The small settlement there was a competitor of St.
Paul for capital honors in territorial times, when there was no
Minneapolis to contest the case, as the title to Ind. lands W. of the
Miss. r. at the Falls of St. Anthony was not extinguished till 1851

Lake Maskuding or in the Prairie, 22

Lake Michigan, 3, 24, 293, 295, 296, 297, 298, 340, 351

Lake Mille Lacs, 312, 313

Lake of Live Oaks, 653

Lake of Tampanagos, 738

Lake of Tears, 65

Lake of the Dead, Mex., 673

Lake of the Dead, N. M., 635

Lake of the Hills, 278

Lake of the Illinoets, 296

Lake of the Island, 129, 317

Lake of the Isles, 94

Lake of the Issati, 95

Lake of the Mountain, 129, 317

Lake of Thequaio, 738

Lake of the Two Mountains, 351

Lake of the Woods, 279, 281, 351

Lake Ontario, xxxi, lxxii, lxxiii, lxxiv, lxxv, lxxvi, lxxvii, cx, 351

Lake pk., N. M., 606, 736

Lake Peosta is part of the sl. in front of Dubuque, Ia., connected by
Barney canal

Lake Rebecca, 74

Lake Relief, 65

Lake r. of Pike, 102, 315, 316

Lake Simcoe, lxxv

Lake Superior, 30, 71, 72, 124, 138, 169, 247, 249, 277, 286, 295,
296, 297, 306, 308, 310, 321, 330, 340, 350

Lake Tlahualila, 673

Lake Traverse r., 160

Lake Willowmarsh, 26

Lake Winepie, 168

Lake Winipie, L. Winnipeg, 278, 280, 322, 327, 351, 353

Lake Winnebago, 24

Lake Winnipeg, 351, 353

Lalande, A., 602

La Lande, B., xlix, 500, 502, 602, 604, 623, 624

Lamalee chain, 15

Lamalee's cr., 15

La Marque, Marie Anne, 255

La Marque, Mgr. de, 254

Lamar sta., Col., 442, 443

Lamberton, N. J., xx

La Mesa, N. M., 634, 640

Lamie, Lamme, see Larme

Lamoille, Minn., 53, 55

Lamont, Hon. D. S., preface, xx

Lamson, Mr., 85

Lamy, see Larme

Lancaster, Pa., 656

Lance, a chf., 361

land-tortoise, 431

Lane co., Kas., 425

Lane, J. H., 383

Lane's isl., 98

Langham, E. L., 358

Lanman, Chas., 327, 335

Lansing, Ia., 42, 43

Laplace r., 162, 334

La Plata, 804

la platte, a game, 535

La Platte r., 412, 479, 500, 523, 524, 532, 536, 591, 744, 757, 758,
831, 840, 852, and see Platte r. and North and South

La Pointe, 80

La Pomme r., 27, 28

La Prairie, Minn., 144, 145

La Puebla de los Angeles, Mex., 722, 723

La Puebla, Mex., city and State, 721, 722, 723

La Ramada, Mex., 670, 671

La Ranchera, a mt. in N. M., 637

Laredo, Tex., 689, 690, 691, 692, 696

Larix americana, 319

Larme, B., 388, 578, 579, 819

Larned res., 425, 429, 433

La Rochelle, France, 77

Larregui, see Salazar y

Larry's cr., 15

Las Acequias, N. M., 741

Lasale, La Salle l., 161, 331, 779, 780

La Salle r., 163

La Salle, Le Sieur de, 3, 35, 51, 64, 70, 71, 72, 91, 288, 309, 560,
714

La Salmera mt., 638

Las Animas, Col., 445

Las Animas co., Col., 442, 443, 445, 446

Las Canopas, 741

Las Coquillas, Mex., 652

Las Cruces, N. M., 639, 640

Las Fronteras, Tex., 643

Las Garzas, Mex., 668, 669

Las Huertas, N. M., 633

Las Isletas, bet. Coahuila and Tex., 692

Las Lunas, N. M., 621, 628, 629

Las Minas, Mex., 652

Las Nutrias, N. M., 629

Las Pennuclas, 635

Las Vegas mts., 736

La Tulipe, Tulip, B., 381, 576

Launay, De, 560

Laurentian waters, 143

Lava butte and sta., N. M., 636

La Vaca, Tex., 779

La Vera Cruz, 721

Lawrenceburg, Ind., 383

Lawrence, Capt. James, cv, cvii

Lawrence co., Mo., 384

laws of N. M., N. Biscay, 754, 768, 769

laws of the U. S., 238

Lead isl., 18

lead mines, 28, 226, see Dubuque

Leadville, Col., 467, 471

Leaf, a chf., 43, 347, 348

Leaf Beds, 349

Leaf Inds., 118

Leaf r., br. of Crow Wing r., 128, 317

Leaf r., br. of Miss. r., of Pike, or Elk r. near Rum r., 95, 97, 101,
314, 315, 356

Leaf Shooters, 44, 349

Leaf's Sioux, 44

league, Mexican, 669

Lea, I., 553

Lean Clare, Claire r., 56, 57, 305

Leander, 576

Leapers, 346, 347

L'eau Chaud, N. M., 597

Leavenworth, Col. H., 83, 239

Leavenworth, Kas., 383, 405, 426

Leavenworth-Sioux treaty, 239

Le Br√ªl√©, a chf., 157

Le Claire, Ia., 25, 26, 293

Le Cousin, 338

Le Cross, Crosse, see Lac La Crosse

Ledoux P. O., Minn., 122

Leech l., 122, 128, 129, 133, 134, 137, 139, 142, 144, 145, 146, 151,
152, 153, 155, 157, 158, 159, 169, 170, 172, 173, 189, 241, 247, 259,
260, 261, 280, 282, 284, 285, 312, 317, 319, 320, 322, 323, 326, 331,
334, 335, 346, 347, 350, 356

Leach Lake br., fk., or r., 137, 149, 150, 151, 152, 153, 289, 322,
323, 324, 325

Leech Lake r., Willow r., 141

Leech Lake traverse, 101

Leech-Otter Tail traverse, 317

Lee co., Ia., 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 291

Lee or Lee's cr., 559

Lee Panes, Lee Pawnees, 697, see Lipans

Lee, S., 106

Lefei, Lefoi, a chf., 43

Le Fou, J., 578

Lefoy, a chf., 43

Legend of Lake Pepin, 66, 67

Legends of Pike's pk., 456, 457, 458

Le Jeune, Father, 349

Lemas, see Gayoso de

Le Moine factory, 18

Le Moine r., 14

Lenexa, Kas., 519

Lennan bayou, 712

Lenox, Minn., 128

Le Noyeau, 347

Lentz, Pvt., 332

Leonard, Mr., 470

Leona r., 696

Leona Victoria, 682

Leon, Don A. de, 780

Leopold hill, 28

Le Panis, see Lipans

Le Picard, 64

Leroux, Antoine, 639, see his biography in Tass√©, II. pp. 229-48

Le Roy, 186

Leroy, Kas., 399

Lertensdorfer, E., 607

Les Coquillas of Pike, 652

Lesser Ultimate Reservoir Bowl, the drainage area of the E. arm of
Lake Itasca, named by Brower

Le Sucre, 156, see Sucre

Lesueur, Fort, 71

Le Sueur, Minn., 88

Lesueur, Pierre, 65, 71, 72, 77, 78, 79, 80, 313

Lesueur r., 79

Lesueur's Terrace, 73

Le Tiembre, Henri, settled 1837 at foot of Timbered hill, Mo.

Letter, Allencaster to Salcedo, xlvi

Letter, Chauncey to Jones, xcvii

Letter, Dearborn to Armstrong, ci, cii

Letter, Dearborn to Montgomery, 842

Letter, Dearborn to Pike, lviii

Letter, Eaton (Mrs.) to Coues, xxxii

Letter, Harrison to Coues, xxxii

Letter, Lamont to Coues, xx

Letter, McGillis to Pike, 251

Letter, Pike to Allencaster, 807, 809

Letter, Pike to Campbell and Fisher, 269

Letter, Pike to Dearborn, lvi, lviii, lix, lx, lxi, lxii, lxiii, 582

Letter, Pike to Dickson, 261

Letter, Pike to Eustis, lxiv, lxv

Letter, Pike to McGillis, 247

Letter, Pike to Natchez Herald, lii

Letter, Pike to Philadelphia Aurora, lxix

Letter, Pike to Salcedo, 812, 820, 837

Letter, Pike to Wilkinson, 221, 223, 232, 263, 269, 271, 567, 568,
572, 573, 576, 577, 580, 581, 585, 589, 822, 828

Letter, Pike (Z.) to Dearborn, xxi

Letter, Salcedo to Pike, 814, 825

Letter, Salcedo to Wilkinson, 815

Letter, Sheaffe to Prevost, xci, xcii

Letter, Wilkinson to Pike, lxiv, 562, 563, 564, 565, 566, 573, 825

Letter, Williams to Holton, xxiii

Le Vent, 591

Lewis and Clark, xxviii, xlix, li, lxiii, 2, 4, 6, 13, 17, 18, 22, 24,
26, 40, 48, 51, 57, 66, 86, 96, 100, 102, 103, 127, 168, 181, 215,
254, 277, 278, 345, 349, 357, 360, 361, 363, 364, 365, 366, 367, 368,
370, 388, 412, 428, 431, 444, 481, 520, 524, 556, 557, 559, 593, 642,
727, 745, 834, 841

Lewis, Capt. M., xxvi, xxviii, cxiii, 40, 198, 271, 277, 384, 594,
656, 734

Lewis co., Mo., 9, 12, 291

Lewis, T. H., 54, 107, 201, 256

Lexington and Southern R. R., 390

Lexington, Ky., lvi

Libby, Minn., 138

Library of Amer. Biogr., xix

Library of Congress, xxxiv

Light cr., 383

Lille, Flanders, 677

Lima, Peru, 725

Lime r., 383

Limestone cr., 443

Limitar mts., 632

Limitar, N. M., 633

Lincoln co., Col., 443

Lincoln co., Kas., 423

Lincoln co., Mo., 4, 5

Lincoln co., Neb., 467

Lincoln, Kas., 423

linden, 315

Lindsburg, Kas., 403

Lindsey, a Mr. Chas., 168

Linn co., Ia., 23

Linn cr., 376

Linn Creek, Mo., 376

Linnell, Minn., 318

Linwood, Ia., 24

Liotot, 779, 780

Lipan Apaches, Lipans, 680, 697, 706, 746, 748, 778

Lippincott, Grambo and Co., 332

Lisa, M. de, 361, 384, 387, 388, 529, 557, 574, 575, 576, 579

L'Isle, G. de, 71, 81, 95, 313

Little Arkansaw r., br. of Ark. r. in Kas., 424, 518, 522, 548, 621

Little Arkansaw r., or Salt fk. of Ark. r., 552, 553, 554

Little Berger's, Burger's cr., 365

Little Boy r., 320

Little Brassos, Brazos r., 707

Little Buffalo cr., 377

Little Bull cr., 519

Little Calumet cr., 6

Little Caney cr., 555

Little Cape Gray, 5

Little Cedar cr., 400

Little chute, Fox r., 300

Little Cimarron r., 558

Little Colorado r., 730

Little Coon cr., 435

Little Corbeau, 243, 257

Little Cow cr., 424, 518, 522

Little Crow, a chf., 85, 87, 88

Little Duckett cr., 362

Little Elk l., at Lake Itasca, named by Brower

Little Elk rap., 123, 124

Little Elk r., 101, 123, 124, 179

Little Fall cr., 123

Little falls, Itasca co., Minn., 147, see Pokegama falls

Little falls, Morrison co., Minn., 123, 316

Little Falls, Morrison co., Minn., 104, 106, 107, 123, 125, 128, 129,
179

Little Falls tp., Morrison co., Minn., 122

Little Fork cr., 124

Little Fountain cr., 452, 455, 459

Little Gravel r. of Pike, 374

Little Gravois cr., 374, 375

Little Ioway r., 48

Little Kakalin, Kaukauna, Konimee, 299, 340

Little Lake r. of Carver, 99

Little Lake Winnipeg, 322

Little Long l., 129, 317

Little Maquoketa r., 32

Little Mississippi r., 163

Little Monegan, Monegau, Monegaw cr., 384

Little Muddy r. of Lewis and Clark, 369

Little Niangua r., 376

Little Osage Inds., 371, 381, 389, 396, 529, 530, 531, 532, 540, 541,
555, 576, 819

Little Osage, Mo., 394

Little Osage r., 384, 385, 386, 390, 393, 394, 395, 396, 404, 473,
513, 514, 523, 555, 557, 584

Little Osage village, 387, 388, 390, 391, 392, 393, 578, 580, 590, 591

Little Pine l., 318

Little Platte r., 468

Little Pomme de Terre r., 380

Little Prairie r. of Nicollet, 138

Little rap., Fox r., 299

Little rap., Minn. r., 347

Little Raven, a chf., 40, 74, 85, 201, 347, 348

Little River, Kas., 522

Little Rock, Ark., 560

Little-rock falls of Schoolcraft, 1832 (and 1855), see Kakabikons

Little Rock l., 316

Little Rock r., 101, 102, 315, 316

Little Sack r., 102

Little Saline r., 405, 406, 423, 545

Little Sand cr., 442

Little Sandstone bluff, 38

Little Sauk r., 101

Little-severed Rock falls, 147

Little shoot, Fox r., 299

Little Six, a chf., 88

Little Streight, 356

Little Sturgeon bay, 298

Little Tabo, Teabo, Tebeau, Tebo cr. or r., 379

Little Tavern cr., 369, 372

Little Tebeau, Tebo cr. or r., 379

Little Thunder, a chf., 266

Little Two Rivers r., 103, 104

Little Turkey cr., 522

Little Verdigris r., 555

Little Vermillion l., 128, 317

Little Walnut cr., 425, 426, 427

Little White Oak pt., 148, 149

Little Willow r., 135

Little Winnepeck l., 322

Little Winnibigoshish l., 150, 325

Little York, lxxvi

Live Oak co., Tex., 696

Live Oaks l., 653

Livingston cr., 420

Livingston, Mont., 642

Liza, see Lisa

lizards, 771

Llanero Apaches, 748

Llanos Estacados, 707

Lo, 182

loadstone, 761

Lockhart, Tex., 704

Lockwood, Capt. B., 686

lodges of Osages, 528

Logan co., Kas., 404

Logan cr., 369

Lone Elm, Kas., 518, 519

Lone Rock, Wis., 302

Long br. of Cow cr., 522

Longfellow, H. W., 90

Long Gulch cr., 468

Long, John, 602

Long Knives, 138

Long, Major S. H., 5, 14, 17, 25, 26, 29, 35, 36, 37, 40, 41, 43, 44,
48, 50, 51, 53, 54, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 66, 67, 69, 70, 72, 73, 74,
77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84, 85, 86, 92, 95, 137, 138, 145, 158, 199,
201, 302, 310, 314, 316, 328, 329, 330, 345, 366, 457, 553, 558

Long Prairie r., 128, 316

Longrice, Long Rice l., 128

Long r., Nokasippi r., 127

Long r. of La Hontan, 49, 50, 67, 68, 69, 71

Longueil, Longueuil, 167

Long Water l., 317

Loomis, Capt. G., 405

Loomis, Eliza, 405

Loose cr., 370

Lopez, Juan, a Franciscan at Bernalillo, N. M., in 1580

Lord, H., 358

Loredo, 691, see Laredo

Loring, Capt., xciv

Lorrimier's son, 710

Los Ajuntos isl., 692

Los Angeles, Cal., 664

Los Gallegos, N. M., 601

Los Griegos, N. M., 617

Los Guanacos, 741

Lo, shamans of, 41

Los Hornos, 741

Los Medanos, Mex., 650

Los Muertos, 741

Los Nogales, Ariz. or Sonora, 646, 773

Los Palomos, N. M., 637

Los Pinos cr., 597

Los Pinos, N. M., 621, 626, 628, a very lately named place, appar.
after 1854; name possibly a personal one?

Lossing, Benson John, b. Feb. 12th, 1813, d. June 3d, 1891, lxxv,
lxxviii, lxxix, lxxxviii, lxxxix, xc, civ, cxii, cxiii

Lost cr., br. of Miss. r., Ia., 18

Lost cr., br. of Miss. r., Wis., 63

Lost cr., br. of Mo. r., 366

Lost or Clear cr., 521

Lost or Willow cr., 518, 521

Lost sl., 46

Lost spr., 401, 518, 521

Lost Spring sta., Kas., 521

Lothario spr., 651

Louis XIV., 13, 30, 64, 560

Louisa co., Ia., 21, 22, 23

Louisiana, xlvii, xlix, lvi, 10, 11, 16, 213, 214, 227, 229, 268, 279,
357, 360, 444, 571, 699, 701, 714, 718, 727, 756, 779, 834, 845

Louisiana, Mo., 6, 7

Louisiana, Pike's Dissertation on, 511

Louisiana Purchase, see Louisiana

Louisiana, State, lxxxi, xc, 696, 699, 711, 726

Louisiana Territory, see Louisiana

Louisianaville, Mo., 6

Louisiane r., 289, 296

Louis le Grand, 333

Louis r., 289

Louisville, Ky., lii

Loup Blanche, a chf., 591

Loup r., 300, 301, 356

Loups, see Pawnee Loups

Louter r., 366

Loutre isl., 367

Loutre r., 366, 367

Lover's Leap, 63

Lower California, 735, 770

Lower Canada, lxxvi

Lower chain of Rock rap., 25

Lower crossing of Ark. r., 439

Lower Fox r., 295, 298, 299, 300

Lower l., Miss. r., near Red Wing, Minn., 70

Lower Nicollet l., 165

Lower Pajarito, N. M., 626

Lower Pimas, 735

Lower Red Cedar l., 102, 133, 134, 135, 138, 172, 173, 174, 175, 176,
180, 186, 279, 311, 314, 316, 320, 356. The N. W. Co. House site was
examined by T. H. Lewis, at instance of A. J. Hill, Oct. 7th, 1886;
former position of three houses visible, with ruins of one chimney;
stones of two other chimneys said to have been hauled away for
foundations; these stones had been taken from the lake shore; the
remains are on a high steep bank overlooking the lake; ground covered
with small brush and high grass; land back of the buildings is
cultivated and strewn with animal bones

Lower Red Cedar r., 134, 135, 261

Lower St. Croix l., 72, 308

Lowther, Hon. Mrs., xxxi

Loyalists, lxxvi

Lozieres, B. de, 713

L'Rhone, L'Rone, 172, 173, 174

Lucas, John B. C., 10

Lucifer spr., 651

Lukens, Capt. J., xxvi, xxvii

Lunas, N. M., 621, 628, 629

Lund sta., Minn., 98

Lusk's ferry, 570

Luta brook or cr., 402, 403

Luter r., 366

Lutra canadensis, 132

Lyendecker l., at Lake Itasca, named by Brower for John Lyendecker

Lyndon, N. M., 640

Lynxville, Wis., 41, 42

Lyon co., Kas., 395, 397, 399, 400, 521

Lyons, Ia., 27

Lyons, Kas., 424, 522

Lytle's pra., 52


M

M', Mac, and Mc treated as one

Macalester College, 254

Ma√ßaque, Macaquia, 742

Macarty, Chevalier, 531

McBean, John, 139

M'Cartie, a Mr., 531

McClure, James, 334

McCormick, R. C., 727

M'Coy, a Mr., 278

McCoy, John C., 554

M'Coy, S., liii

McCoy's isl., 6

McCrary, Geo. W., 17

McDaniel, John, 424

McDonald's house, 278

Macdon l., 713

McDougal's eddy and rap., 103, 104

McFarlane, one, 558

McGarrahan, Wm., lxiii

McGee's, Col., 469

M'Gillis, Mr. Hugh, 154, 155, 171, 172, 173, 174, 180, 241, 247, 250,
254, 274

McGirk's isl. and ldg., 366, 367

McGregor, Ia., 37, 224

McGregor, Minn., 137

McGuire, Father, 698, 699

McHugh, Minn., 318

McIntire, Gov. A. W., 496

Mackay or M'Kay, a Mr., 278

McKay l., in Itasca basin, named by Brower for Rev. Stanley A. McKay,
who first baptized there, 1891

Mackenzie, a Mr., 278

McKenzie cr., 385

Mackenzie, McKenzie, Sir A., 354

Mackinac, 170

Mackinac co., Mich., 295

McKinney's r., 125

McLean, D., xciv

McLean's cr., 4

Maclura aurantiaca, 816

Maclure, Col., lxxx, lxxxi, lxxxvii, xcvi

McMahon, Maj. Wm., 438

McMullen co., Tex., 696

McNeal, Capt., xciii

McNeal's ferry, 102

Macomb, Gen. A., xxvii, xxix, 332

McPherson co., Kas., 403, 404

McPherson, Kas., 521, 522

Macraragah, 268, 347

Macuwa isl., 153

Madison Barracks, civ

Madison co., Ill., 1

Madison, flagship, lxxxiii, xci, xcvii, c, cx

Madison, Ind., 332

Madison, Ia., 17, 18, see Fort Madison

Madison, James, lxx, 814

Madrid, 457, 613, 677, 700, 721

magazine explosions, lxxviii, lxxix, lxxxviii, lxxxix, xc, xci, xciii,
xcv, xcvi, xcviii, xcix

Magdalena, N. M., 632

Magdalena r., 771

Magdalene r., 71

Magdalen mts., 631, 632, 638

Magdalen r., 309

Magdeburg, lxvi

Magdelaine r., 71, 309

magic of Osages, 527

magpies, 460

Magui, 744

Maguire, Wm. M., preface, xliv, xlv, cxiii, 453, 466, 490, 491, 492,
495, 496

Mahas, Mahaws, 343, 526, 544, 583, 591

Mahgossau, 89

Mahwawkeeta is same as Makoqueta

Maiden rock, 63

Maiden Rock City, Wis., 63, 64

Maiden's head or rock, 63

Maison Fran√ßoise, 80

Majave, 735

Makandwyinniniwag, 170

Makarty, Chevalier, 531

Makokety, Makoqueta r., 28, 32, 33

Malabanchia, Malabouchia, 288

Malachite, Col., 492

Malagare, see Malgares

Malgares, Don F., 413, 414, 420, 457, 499, 537, 611, 624, 625, 626,
627, 628, 630, 633, 634, 635, 648, 649, 652, 654, 655, 656, 658, 659,
660, 661, 662, 664, 665, 666, 667, 670, 671, 698, 712, 750, 754, 809,
810, 829, 839, 851. Name also appears as Melgares, and as that of last
civil and military governor under the Spanish crown, 1818 to 1822

Malhern qu. Malheur cr., 366

Maligne, Maline r., 707

Malpimi, see Mapimi

Malta, Order of, 657

Mancy, see Many

Mandanes, Mandans, 168, 254, 255, 256, 278, 734, 757

Maney, La., 712

Maney, see Many

Manidowish r., 306

Manila, audience of, 718

Manistique r., 296

Manitou and Pike's Peak R. R., 452

Manitou cr. of Beltrami, 16

Manitou Springs, Col., 452, 454, 456

Mankato, Kas., 420

Mankato r., 68, 79, 80

manners, etc., 754, 755, 767, 787

Manny, La., 712

Manny, see Many

Manomin co., Minn., see Fridley. This county is now Fridley tp. of
Anoka co.

Manomin cr., or Rice cr., Anoka co., Minn., 94

Manomin l., Aitkin co., Minn., discharging by Rice Lake r. or Sand
Lake r. into Sandy l., 137

Manomin l., on Fox r., Wis., 303

Manomin l., various, see Rice l. and Pinidiwin l.

Manomin r., or Rice r., Aitkin co., Minn., near Mud r., 136

Manton, W., preface

manufactures, etc., 776, 791

Manville sta., Col., 442

Manya Wakan r., 316

Many, Capt. James B., xxvi, xxviii, 210, 211, 213, 514, 694

Many, La., 712

Manzano mts. and pk., 629

Mapimi, Mex., 674, 675, 676, 678, 680, 685, 689, 761, and see Bolson
de

Mapini, see Mapimi

Maple brook, 103

Maple isl., Ill. or Mo., 2, 5

Maple isl., Minn., 103

Mapula, Mex., 667

Maquanquitons, Maquaquity, and Maquoqueti in Schoolcraft, 1820 and
1855, for Makoqueta r.

Maqui, 744

Maquoketa, see Makoqueta r.

Marais Croche, 361

Marais des Cygnes r., 386, 519, 520, 521

Marais d'Og√©, d'Osier, 26

Marais sl., 41

Maraujo, Bega de, 677

Marcharavieja, 803

Marchessau r., 63

Marchon, Capt. E., 703

Marcy, Capt. or Gen. R. B., 452, 473, 645

Mare de Oge, 26

Margry's Relations, 23, 70, 71

Mariana, Mariano r., 697, 776, 780. Maricopas, 735, 736, lived further
down the Gila, with their Yuman kindred, when the original of Pike's
map was made

Marie Croche l., 361

Marier, Mr., 243

Maries co., Mo., 371

Maries r., 371

Marion City, Mo., 11

Marion co., Ala., cxi

Marion co., Kas., 395, 401, 402, 403, 521

Marion co., Mo., 8, 9

Marion, Kas., 401, 402, 521

Maria, Sieur de, 779

Marmaton, Marmiton r., 386, 389, 390, 393, 394, 396

Marmot pk., 470

maroon, 438

Marquee, 712

Marquette, 3, 13, 35, 71, 289, 294, 295, 296, 559

Marquette co., Wis., 301

Marquette l., 161, 331

Marsh cr., br. of Buffalo cr., 409

Martell's l., 41

Marten r., 143

Marthasville, 364

Martin, Abraham, 296

Martin cr., 401

Martin, Geo. W., xlvii

Martin's, Ill., 4

Martin's or Slate cr., 465

Mar Vermejo, Red Sea, old name of the Gulf of California

Mary cr., 166, 167, named by Peter Turnbull for his wife

Mary l., 166, named by Brower for Mary Turnbull, first white woman at
Lake Itasca, 1883, gave birth there to first white child; her cabin
was on the hill on E. side of the E. arm, opp. Turnbull pt.

Maryland, xxviii, lvii, lxxxvi, ciii, civ, cxi, 229, 539, 656

Mary, La., 712

Mary, see Many

Mary's Home, Mo., 372

Mary valley, in the Lesser Ultimate Reservoir Bowl, named by Brower
for Mrs. Mary Turnbull

Masciccipi r., 288

Mascoutens, Mashkudens, 81, 145

Mashongnavi, 744, is Pike's Mosanis

Maskoutens r., 13

Mason, Prof. O. T., preface

Mason's isl., 3

Masoretic points, 182

Massachusetts, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, lxxx, lxxxi, lxxxvii, lxxxviii,
ciii, 715, 826

massacre of Gunnison's party, 733

massacre of Osages, 531

Massas cr., 366

Massey, Ia., 32

Massey's cr., 366

Massey, Wm., 358

Matagorda bay, 779, 781

Matagorda isl., 697

Matagorda, Tex., 705, 707

Matamoras, Mex., 677

Matape r., 771, 773

Matcho Maniton, 100

Matfield Green, Kas., 401

Mathers, U. S. Commissioner, 518

Matsaki, 742

Matthews, Dr. W., 741

Maturrangos, 739

Maugraine or Noel, 393, 566, 579, 581, 591

Maupeme, Maupemie, Mausseme, see Mapimi

Mauvaise Hache r., 49

Maverick co., Tex., 695

Maxwell, Mr., 211

May cr., 492

Mayes, 706

Mayner, Maynor, or Mayron, Don A., 659, 660, 661, 662

Mayo r., 771

Mayron, Mex., 677

Mazatlan, Mex., 774

Mazatlan r., 774

Mde, Sioux name of Lake Pepin, two syllables, first short, last
accented as if Meday¬¥

Mde Wakanton l., 94

Mdewakantonwan Sioux, 74, 95, 201, 313, 342

Mdote-mini-sotah, 81

Mdoteminiwakan r., 314

Meade co., Kas., 556

Meadow qu. Medano cr., 482

Meadow r., 145, 321

Meadows, Col., 459

Means r., 13, 355

Meaogeo r., 137

Meaux, France, 295

Mecan, Mechan r., 301

Mechesebe r., 288

Medano cr., 482, 491

Medano pass, 499, 491, 493, 650

Medanos, Mex., 650

medicine-stone, 73

Medicine Wood, 74

Medina co., Tex., 697

Medina r., 697, 776

Medora, Mo., 370

Meeker co., Minn., 97

Meek, Sgt. W. E., xlvi, 1, 114, 115, 118, 178, 359, 360, 432, 482,
490, 506, 509, 510, 595, 830, 832, 845, 850, 853, 854, 855

Mekabea Sepe, 29

Melcher or Michon, more probably Melchior, Don, 686, 688

Meles taxus, 96

Meline, Col. J. F., xlvi, xlvii, lv, cxii

Melish, John, 553

Menard, 51, 71, 295, 296

Menasha, 300

Menaugh, Pvt. H., 1, 359, 360, 432, 482, 490, 506, 510, 845, 854, 855

Menchokatonx, 313

Mendesuacantons, 313

Mende Wahkantoan, 345, 348

Mendota, Minn., 76, 81, 83

Mendoza, a viceroy, 718

Meno Cockien, 356

Men of Achievement Series, xlviii

Menomene Inds., see Menomonee Inds.

Menomene r., 340

Menomeny-sibi, 138

Menomine, Menominie Inds., see Menomonee Inds.

Menomonee cr., Ill., 32

Menomonee Inds., 38, 39, 183, 299, 330, 340, 341, 346, 347

Menomonee settlement, 300

Mer a Doge, 26

Mercer co., Ill., 21

Mercer co., O., 438

Mercer cr., 400

Merchant, a chf., 268

Mercier, Mr., 243

Mer Douce, 30

Merior, Maj., 411

Merriam, Kas., 519

Merrimac isl., 74, was the nidus of a spiritualists' camp, 1892-93

Merrimac, Minn., 74

Mesa Prieta, 634

Mescalero Apaches, 631, 632, 748

Mescalero res., 748

Meschaouay r., 50

Meschasipi r., 288

Meschetz Odeba r., 35

mesquite, 704

Mesquite, N. M., 640

Messchsipi r., 288

Messila, N. M., 640

Messipi, Messisipi r., 288

Meteorological Observations, 216, 217, 218, 219, 220, 716, 717

Meteros r., 682

Metifs, 510, 738, 764, 768, 771, 774, 790

Metoswa raps., 160, were so named by Schoolcraft, 1855, because he
supposed they were 10 in number

Meunier, Pierre, see Archev√™que

Mexican boundary, 641, 642, 644, 645, 646, 647, 691, 692, 735

Mexican claims, 647

Mexican mts., in Col., 444, 445, 822

Mexicano or Mexican r., 702, 711

Mexican tour, Pike's, begins 595, runs to end of Vol. II.

Mexican waters, 164

Mexico, in various applications, _passim_ throughout Pt. 3, and 270,
340, 677, 683, 684, 718, 720, 721, 722, 723, 724, 726, 735, 739, 740,
742, 743, 746, 765, 786, 790, 800

Meyer, Wm., 238

Miakechesa, Mia Kechakesa, 345, 349

Miami co., Kas., 519

Miami rap., xxvi

Miawakong r., 316

Michals, Mr. Myers, 20

Micheli-, see Michil-

Michigan, State or Territory, xxx, 45

Michilimackinac, 20, 68, 70, 181, 183, 229, 247, 250, 261, 276, 280,
281, 294, 295, 298, 303, 304, 306, 327, 345, 346, 352

Michi Sepe, 288

Michler, Lt. Nathaniel, 645, 647, 692

Michoacan, 718, 719, 720, 721, 723

Michon, see Melcher

Micissypy r., 288

Mico, 288

Middle cr., br. of Cottonwood r., 401

Middle cr., br. of Mo. r., 369

Middle Nicollet l., 165

Middle or Half-way r., 559

Middle park, Col., xlviii, 479

Middle r., br. of Mo. r., 369

Midway, Col., 469

Midway Reservoir, at Clarke l. and vicinity, named by Brower

Mier, Mex., 691, 692, 696

Migadiwin cr., 98

Migiskun Aiaub l., 317

migrations of Pawnees, 535

Mikenna l., in Itasca basin, named by A. J. Hill

Milakokia r., 295

Milan, Ill., 4, 24, 293

Military Academy, see West Point

military discipline, Spanish, 797

military force, 755, 769, 772, 773, 793

Mil Lac, 312

Millada r., 688, 689, 777

Mill cr., br. of Big Gravel cr., 375

Mill cr., br. of Kansas r., 519

Mill cr., br. of Marmiton r., 396

Mille Lac, 311, 312

Mille Lac l., 312

Mille Lacs, 70, 102, 135, 312

Mille Lacs co., Minn., 312, 314

Mille Lacs l., 91, 94, 95, 96, 152, 351

Miller bend, 365

Miller co., Mo., 371, 372, 373, 374

Miller cr., 385

Miller, Pvt. Theo., xlvi, 1, 108, 109, 110, 113, 114, 115, 117, 145,
146, 149, 151, 153, 154, 155, 187, 359, 360, 371, 432, 454, 457, 464,
470, 472, 476, 482, 490, 506, 509, 510, 854, 855

Miller's ldg., 365

Milles Lac, Milles Lacs, 312

Millieu r., 559

Mill isl., 123

Mill l., 312

Mill Pine cr., 63

Milltop, Col., 469

Milor, a half-breed, 66

Milton sta., Kas., 521

Mimbre√±o Apaches, 748

Mimbres mts. or range, Mex., 674

Mimbres mts. or range, N. M., 637

Minas, Mex., 652

Mineola, Mo., 367

Mineral bluff, 52

Mine r., 383, 384

Miners, Miner's, Miners' cr., 34

mines, 673, 674, 759, 760, 761

Minetares, 344

Minirara, 91

Miniskon r., 57

Minisotah r., 81

Minitik isl. of Beltrami is the large round cut-off close above the
mouth of that Manomin or Rice r. which falls in 4 air-line miles above
Missagony r.

Miniwakan l., Minn., 314

Miniwakan l., N. Dak., 314

Minnay Chonkahah, 54

Minnay Sotor r., 81, 295

Minneapolis, Kas., 405

Minneapolis, Minn., 70, 82, 83, 90, 91, 92, 236. The 89,483 names in
city directory of 1893 supposed to represent a pop. of 223,707

Minnehaha, 91, 92

Minnehaha falls, 90

Minneiska bluffs, 57

Minneiska, Minn., 57

Minneiska r., 56, 57, 305

Minneopa, Minn., 55

Minnequa l., 453

Minneshonka, 54

Minneska r., 57

Minnesota City, Minn., 56

Minnesota Historical Society, or Collections of, xxxv, cxiii, 14, 17,
25, 26, 29, 31, 43, 54

Minnesota isl., Wis., 53

Minnesota r., cx, 24, 31, 69, 74, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 91,
179, 227, 260, 310, 328

Minnetonka l., 90

Mino Cockien r., 295

Minowa Kantong, 69, 74, 342, 343, 344, 345, 346, 347

Minsi-sagaigon-ing, 312, 313, 314

mintage, 792

Mirabeau, 801

Miranda, 576

Mire r., 383, 384

Misacoda r., 309

Misakoda of Schoolcraft, 1855, see Misacoda r.

Mischipi r., 288

Misconsin, Misconsing, Miscou r., 35

Mishongnivi, 744

Misi River r., 312

Misisaga, lxxvi, xcv

Misisipi r., 287

Miskonsing r., 35

Miskwakis, 338

Missagony r., Missayguani-sibi, 96, 135, 136

Missilimackinac, 67, 68, see Michili-

Mission Agency, Cal., 736

Mission of Adayes, 713

missions of New Mexico, see under pueblos in general

Missisagaiegon, Mississacaigan l. and r., 313, 314

Missisagus, see Misisaga

Mississawgaigon r. of Schoolcraft, 1820, is Rum r.

Mississippian place-names, 355

Mississippi Herald, lvi

Mississippi r., geography of the, 287

Mississippi r., noted names of, 288

Mississippi r., not indexed--throughout Pt. 1, and elsewhere passim

Mississippi spr., in the center of the Greater Ultimate Reservoir
Bowl, named by Brower

Mississippi State, cx, 700

Mississippi Terr., lxv, 662, 666

Mississipy r., 288

Missourians of Doniphan's Exp., 654

Missouri Geological Report, 372

Missouri Inds., 338, 346, 525, 526, 536, 591

Missouri, Kansas, and Texas R. R., 8, 385, 397

Missouri Pacific R. R., 365, 370, 379, 385, 390, 403, 404, 448

Missouri r., not indexed--Pt. 2 to 369 and elsewhere passim

Missouri River Commission, 363, 364, 365, 366, 369

Missouri, State of, cx, cxi, and in Pt. 1 to 14, in Pt. 2 to 395, also
518, 519

Missouriton, Mo., 363

Mitchell co., Kas., 421

Mitchell, Lt.-Col., 674

Mitchell, Lt.-Col. G. E., ci, ciii

Mitchell, S. A., 553, 554

Mitschaoywa r., 50

Mobile isl., 2

Moctezuma r., 771

Modenas pass, 491

Moeng8oana r., 13

Mogollon Apaches, 748

Mogollon, Mogoyon mts., 730

Mohace, 744

Mohave Inds., 736

Mohave r., 776

Mohotse, 744

Moingana, Moingoana r., 13

Mojave, 735

Mojou, Joseph, 87

Moki, 630, 731, 742, 743, 744

Moki buttes or mesas, 743, 744

mole, 97

Moline chain, 25

Moline, Ill., 25

Moloch, priests of, 41

Mommytaw r., 386

Monastery Road, 670, 706

Monclova, 776, 777

Monegaw Springs, Mo., 384

Monistique r., 296

Monkey, see Moki

Monk r., 14

Monmouth, lxvi

Monongahela r., 438

Montagne de Salines, 631, 632

Montagne qui Trempe √† l'Eau, 52, 54, 206, 356

Montaigne de la Prairie, 348

Montaigne de Sel, 732

Montana, xlix, cxi

Montbrun's tavern, 368, 369

Montebello, 14

Monte de los Tres Rios, 685

Monte Largo, 619

Montello, 301

Montelovez, 673, 677, 685, 686, 689, 695, 701, 775, 777, 779, 784

Mont Elrey, El Rey, 701, 725, 784

Monterey bay, 725

Monterey, Count of, 725, 755

Monterey, Mex., 685, 690, 692, 701, 725, 784

Monte Rito Alto, 483

Montezuma I., II., 737

Montezuma, Kas., 437

Montgomery co., Kas., 400, 555

Montgomery co., Mo., 4, 366, 367, 368

Montgomery, Hon. John, lxiii, 841, 842

Monticello, Minn., 97, 98, 99

Mont La Garde is Schoolcraft's name for La Grange, at Red Wing, Minn.

Montoso mt., 598

Montoyo, Tex., 640, 643

Montpelier, Ia., 23, 24

Montreal, Can., lxxvii, 77, 167, 312

Montreal, Ill., 18

Montreal r., Wis., 306

Montrose, Ia., 16, 291

Montrose isl., 16

Montville, Col., 493

Monument cr., 452

Moon cr., 400

Moore, Dr. John, 616

Moore, Geo. H., 326

Moorhead, Minn., 318

Moors, 787

Moose rap., 137

Moqui, 730, 731, 744

Moquino pueblo, 630

morals, 754, 755, 769, 787

Moranget, 779, 780

Morantown, Kas., 397

Morelos, Mex., 718, 721, 722

Morelos y Pavon, J. M., 720

Morgan co., Mo., 371, 374, 377

Mormon battalion, 333, 639

Mormon cr., Wis., 50

Mormons, 15, 734

Moro r., 559

Morris co., Kas., 521

Morrison, Allan, 326, 327, guided Chas. Lanman to Lake Itasca in 1846

Morrison co., Minn., cx, 102, 103, 107, 122, 123, 125, 127, 128, 179

Morrison hill, 165, named by Brower for Wm. Morrison

Morrison, James, 360

Morrison l., 164, named by Brower for Wm. Morrison

Morrison's, Minn., 130

Morrison, Wm., 139, 164, 167, 181, 326, 327, 336, b. Canada, 1783, d.
there Aug. 7th, 1866

Morrison, Wm., of Kaskaskia, 500, 507, 602, 603

Morrison, Wm. R., 603

Morse's Atlas and Gazetteer, 10, 549, 553

Morte r., 49, 50, 67, 68

Morton, S. G., 747

Mosanis, 730, 743, see Mashongnavi

Mosca cr., 492, 493

Mosca pass, 490, 492, 493, 506

Mosca pk., 629

Moscosaguiagon l., 329

Mosier's isl. and ldg., 6

Moska, Mosko r., 124

Mosquito rap., 100, 194

Moss l., 153

Moszasnavi is Mashongnavi

Mothe-Cadillac, A. de la, 714

mother-ditches, 741

Mother l., 90

Moundville, Wis., 302

Mountain Island r., 54

Mountain, Lake of the, 129, 317

Mountain of Salt, 732

Mountain of the Dead, 637

Mountain of the Three Rivers, 685

mountain rams, 476

Mountains of Magdalen, 631, 632

Mountain Which Soaks, etc., 54, 55, 356

Mt. Antero, 469

Mt. Brinley, 484

Mt. Cheyenne, 455, 456

Mt. Chimborazo, 461

Mt. Elbert, 471

Mt. Harvard, 470

Mt. Herring, 483

Mt. Hosmer, 43

Mountjoy, Pvt., 1, 359, 360, 432, 470, 472, 482, 490, 510, 845, 854,
855

Mt. Keyes, 469, 474

Mt. Lincoln, 524

Mt. McDowell, 734

Mt. Magdalen, 632

Mt. Navajo, 731, 744

Mt. Pascal, 633

Mt. Pisgah, 456, 465

Mt. Princeton, 469

Mt. Robinson, 484

Mt. Rosa, 455, 456

Mt. Royal Cemetery, 167

Mt. St. Elias, 722

Mt. San Diego, 639

Mt. Shavane, 469, 474

Mt. Soak Your Feet, etc., 53

Mt. Tremble Oh, Trempealeau, Trombalo, Trombonello, Trump Low, 52, 53.
Strombolo is another form, once frequent

Mt. Truchas, see Truchas mt.

Mt. Tyndall, 483

Mt. Vernon barracks, 748

Mt. Vernon, Minn., 57

Mt. Washington, Col., 454

Mt. Washington, N. H., 454

Mt. Yale, 470

Mouse r., 168, 278

Mozeemleek, 68

Mozier's isl., 6

Muckpeanut, Muckpeanutah, 208, 347

Muckundwas, 169, 170

Mud cr., br. of Ark. r. in Col., 443, 444

Muddy cr., br. of Grape cr., 491

Muddy cr., br. of Huerfano r., 448, 490, 491, 492

Muddy cr., br. of Mo. r., 369, see Big and Little

Muddy cr., br. of Osage r., 382, 386

Muddy l., on Fox r., 302, 356

Muddy l., on Leech Lake fork, 151, 323

Muddy r., see Mud r.

Muddy York, lxxvi

Mud l., Aitkin co., Minn., 135

Mud l., on Leech Lake fork, 151, 153, 324

Mud or Muddy r., Aitkin co., Minn., 135, 136, 320

Mud sl., Ill., 6

Mugua is Moki

Mukimduawininewug, 171

Mukundwais, 170

Mukwa isl., 153

Mulberry cr., br. of Ark. r. in Kas., 436, 437

Mulberry cr., br. of Ark. r. in Col., 444

Mulberry cr., br. of Smoky Hill r., 404

Mullanphy isl., 361

Mundy's ldg., 7

Mungo-Meri-Paike, xlv, xlvi

Mung's isl., 363

Murdoch's ldg., 363

Musaqui, 742

Musca pass, 492

Muscatine co., Ia., 22, 23, 24

Muscatine, Ia., 21, 22, 23, 145

Muscatine isl. and sl., 22

Muscononges, 351

Muse of Mitylene, 66

Mushkoda r. of Schoolcraft, 1855, see Prairie r.

Mushkotensoi-sibi, 145

Music pass, 482, 490, 491, 493

Music pass of Hayden, 491

Music's ferry, 361

Muskogees, 513

musqueet, 704

mustangs, 707, 783

Mycycypy r., 288

Myers, Col., xcv

mystic rites, 753, 754


N

Nabajoa r., 731, Indiens de Nabajoa appears on Humboldt's map, whence
Pike took the name: see Navajo

Nachez r., 782, see Neches r.

Nachitoch, Nachitoches, see Natch-

Nacodolhes, xli

Nacogdoches co., Tex., 709, 710

Nacogdoches, Tex., xli, liii, liv, 411, 412, 708, 709, 710, 711, 784,
786, 839

Nadal, Fray Pedro, and Fray de la Asuncion were two friars who first
entered New Mexico, _i. e._, Arizona, in 1538, before September of
that year

Nadouasioug, Nadouechiouec, Nadouecioux, Nadouesiouack, Nadouesiouek,
Nadouesseronons, Nadouesserons, Nadouessi, Nadouessis, 312, 349, and
see Sioux

Nadouessioux r., 13, and see Des Moines r.

Nadoussiou, River of the, 95, and see Rum r.

Naduesiu, 349

Nafiap, 619

Nagadoches, Naggadoches, see Nacogdoches

Nagajika cr., 13

Nahjo, 730, see Navajo Inds.

Naisha, 748

Naiwa l., 161

Naiwa Lake fk., 162

Naiwa r., 162, 331, 334

Namago-sibi, 143

Namakagon r., 309

Nambe, 605

Nambe cr., 605

Nanahaws, 746, see Navajo Inds.

Nanesi r., 448, 481

Nankele, Nankesele r., 127

Nanpashene, 86

Naouadiches, 714

Napesi, Napeste, Napestle r., 448

Napoleon I., 381

Narcotah, 346, 347

Narrows, The, in Kas., 518, 520

Nasas, Nassas, Nazas r., 673, 677, 678, 679, 681, 762

Nashville, Ia., 15

Nassas, see Nasas

Nassau, Grand Duchy of, 452

Nassau, Ia., 14

Natches r., 708, 709

Natchez Herald, lii

Natchez Inds., 713

Natchez massacre, 714

Natchez, Miss., liii, liv, 657, 666, 692, 699, 700, 708, 827

Natchez r., 709

Natchitoches co., La., 713

Natchitoches Inds., 714

Natchitoches, Nachitoches, Nachitoch, La., xxi, xli, l, li, lii, 77,
360, 414, 497, 504, 537, 565, 571, 575, 592, 661, 690, 696, 705, 706,
708, 711, 784, 823, 824, 827, 828, 837, 839, 848, 855

Nathrop, Col., 469, 472

National Academy of Sciences, 741

Nation, The, of N. Y., 6, 40

Natural Obelisk r., 67

Nau, Antoine, xli, xliii, xliv, lxi, 833

Naudowessies, 80

Nauvoo, Ill., 15, 16, 211

Navajo cr., 491

Navajo, Navaho Inds., 619, 630, 633, 634, 730, 731, 744, 746. Mr. F.
W. Hodge informs me he can fix the date of advent of the Navajos in
latter part of the 15th century, though they were not strong enough to
make mischief till early in the 17th

Navajo res., 746

Navajo r., 731

Navarino, Wis., 299

Navasota r., 707

Nazas, see Nasas

Nazeekah, 88

Ndakotahs, 79

Neale, Capt. W., xci

Neal, W. E., 336

Necha r., 302

Nechech, 347

Neches, Nechez, Nachez r., 696, 708, 709, 710, 782

Necktame, 347

Needle, a mt. in Col., 465

Neenah, 300

Negracka r., 549, 552, 553, 554, 705

Negracka r., of Wilkinson, 549

Nehemgar r., 376, 513, 540

Neill, Rev. E. D., 29, 31, 75, 80, 84, 139, 170, 254, 313, 349

Nelson, Hon. Mr., cvii

Nelson's r., 327

Nemaha r., 418

Nemitsakouat, 71

Nemitsakouat r., 309

Nenescah, Nenesesh, Nenesquaw r., 549

Neocho, see Neosho r.

Neosho basin, 395

Neosho Falls, Kas., 398

Neosho r., 395, 397, 398, 399, 400, 401, 473, 514, 515, 518, 521, 541,
552, 556, 557

Neouoasicoton r., 309

Neozho, see Neosho r.

Nepeholla r., 408

Ne Perce, see Nez Perc√©

Nepesangs, 351

Nepesta, Col., 448

Nescutanga, Nescutango r., 552, 554

Neskalonska r., 549, 552

Neska r., 555

Ness co., Kas., 425

Nesuhetonga, Nesuketonga, Nesuketong r., 552, 553, 554

Neuces, see Nueces r.

Nevada, 732, 735

Nevomes, 735

New Albin, Ia. or Minn., 45

New Amsterdam, Wis., 52

Newark, lxxvi

Neway l., 161, and see Naiwa l.

New Biscay, liii, 610, 638, 641, 649, 650, 673, 678, 719, 720, 723,
725, 727, 729, 739, 749, 756, 759, 762, 763, 764, 765, 766, 767, 768,
769, 770, 771, 772, 774, 775, 769, 808, 823

New Boston, Ill., 21, 23

New Braunfels, Tex., 703

New cave, 199, 200, 201

New Englanders, 188

Newfoundland banks, 77

New Galicia, 719

New Hampshire, lxxxi, ciii, 454

New Haven, Mo., 365

New Hope, Minn., 83. An undated military map (MS.) in the Minn. Hist.
Soc. marks "Cantonment St. Peter's" opp. W. end of Pike's isl., about
¬æ m. from center of Mendota. This is presumably the place christened
New Hope

New Jersey, xx, xxii, lix, lx, lxii, cviii, cix

New Leon, 701, 719, 724, 725, 759, 775, 776, 779, 786

New Madrid, 657

New Mexico, xlvi, xlvii, lii, 444, 446, 447, 461, 483, 497, 499, 503,
536, 537, 555, 559, 564, 571, 572, 583, 588, 591, 595, 597,
continuously to 641, also 696, 697, 719, 726, 727 and continuously to
758, 769, 770, 772, 775, 779, 813, 815, 818, 823, 825, 838, 848, 849

New Mexico, aborigines of, 743

New Mexico, agriculture of, 740, 741, 742

New Mexico, animals of, 738

New Mexico, government and laws of, 754

New Mexico, history of, 755, 756

New Mexico, lakes of, 737

New Mexico, manners and morals of, 754

New Mexico, military force of, 755

New Mexico, population of, 738

New Mexico, religion of, 755

New Mexico, trade and commerce of, 739

New Okat, 347

New Orleans, La., lxiv, 213, 360, 539, 564, 687, 699, 703, 757, 813,
824, 825, 855

Newport isl., 74

Newport, Minn., 72, 73, 74

Newry, lxxix

New San Ander, 724, 725, 729, 775, 779

New San Ander r., 724

Newsewketonga r., 552, 555, 556

New Spain, passim, as 499, 560, 563, 571, 598, 641, 656; Special
Observations on, 718 and to end of the chapter; General Remarks on,
786 to 806; 818

New York Evening Post, 326

New York Herald, lxix, lxx

New York, Ia., 27

New York State, xxvi, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, liii, lxvi, lxxxii, lxxxiv,
lxxxviii, cix, 656

Nez Corbeau, Nez de Corbeau, 203, 267, 347

Nez Perc√©, 346, 347

Nezuma, 540, 550, 551, 591

Niagara, battle of, falls, r., or town, lxxiii, lxxvi, lxxxi, xc,
xcvii. Thirty-nine ways of spelling the word are found

Niangua r., 376, 379, 540

Nicholson, Capt. B., xc, civ

Nickerson isl. is opp. mouth of Elk r.

Nicolet, Jean, 31, 349

Nicollet Heights, 165

Nicollet, J. N., 4, 5, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 16, 18, 22, 23, 24, 26, 28,
34, 35, 36, 42, 43, 49, 50, 52, 53, 54, 57, 58, 61, 63, 64, 65, 67,
68, 69, 70, 79, 80, 81, 82, 90, 94, 95, 96, 97, 99, 100, 101, 102,
103, 104, 122, 123, 124, 126, 127, 128, 129, 131, 135, 136, 137, 138,
142, 143, 144, 145, 147, 148, 150, 151, 153, 155, 156, 159, 161, 162,
163, 164, 165, 166, 167, 200, 201, 213, 214, 215, 309, 312, 314, 316,
323, 324, 328, 331, 333, 334, 335, 336, 363, 364, 365

Nicolletian source of Miss. r., 159

Nicollet lakes, 165

Nicollet's cave, 75

Nicollet's cr., so called by T. H. Kirk, 1887, is the Infant
Mississippi

Nicollet valley, 165

Nicollet, Wis., 299

Niemada l. is near Little Mantrap l., in Itascan basin

Nika, 780

Nile of the Bolson, 678

Niles, H., Niles' Register, lxix, lxxi, lxxix, lxxx, lxxxii, lxxxiv,
xc, xcvi, xcvii, xcix, ci, ciii, cv, cvi, cvii, cviii, cix

Nimissakouat, 71

Nimissakouat r., 309

Nine Mile isl., 32

Nininger, Minn., 74

Ninnescah r., 549

Nipissing l., 351

Niobrara res., 44

Niota, Ia., 17, 18

Niota isl., 17

Nissipikouet, 71

Nissipikouet r., 309

Niza, Nizza, Friar Marcos or Marcus, of Nic√¶a, Nice, or Nizza, Italy,
on Nov. 25th, 1538, had received instructions from Don Antonio de
Mendoza, first viceroy of New Galicia, and left San Miguel de Culiacan
on Friday, Mar. 7th, 1539, with the negro Est√©van or Est√©vanico as
guide, to go N. into present Sonora and Arizona to Cibola; he
discovered the Cibolan pueblo of Ahacus, now Hawiku, where Est√©van had
gone before him and been killed; returned to Culiacan Sept. 2d, 1539,
reported descubrimiento de las siete ciudades, _i. e._, seven cities
of Cibola, and died at City of Mexico Mar. 25th, 1558

Noachian, Noah, Noah's ark, 56, 182

Noal, Noel, or Maugraine, 393, 581

Nogal arroyo, 637

Nogales, lii, 657

Nogales, see Los Nogales

Nogal mts., 631

Noir cr., 290

Noire r., 296

Noissour, Noix r., 695

Noka, a chf., 127

Noka r., 127

Nokasele, Noka Sipi, Nokasippi

Nokay r., 127, 128, 178, 179, 316

Nolan, Capt. Philip, li, lii, lv, 609, 657, 660, 666, 767, 811

Nolan, J. B., 255

Nolan, Le Sieur, 255

Nolan, Noland, Nolant, Chas., 255, 256

No Man's Land, 727

Noonan, Noonan's pk. or mt., 462, 463, 478, 479

Normandie, 779

North Arm of Lake Itasca so named by Brower

North Bend, O., xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii

North Big cr., 399

North Buffalo, Ia., 24

North Carolina, liii, lxxxiv, cx, cxi

North Cheyenne cr., 452

North Dakota, 278, 704

Northern Pacific R. R., 167, 318

North Fabius r., 10

North fk. of Ark. r., 452, 453

North fk. of Canadian r., 559

North fk. of Osage r., 394

North Fritz isl., 7

North La Crosse, Wis., 51

North McGregor, Ia., 37, 41, 304

North Mexico, 524, 535, 641, 650, 654, 738, and see New Mexico

North mt., or Pike's pk., 461

North park, Col., 479, 642

North Platte r., 467, 479, 524, 642, 729

North Two Rivers, 10, 11, 290, 291

North Washington, Mo., 364

North West Company, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141, 145,
154, 155, 167, 168, 174, 241, 247, 248, 250, 251, 253, 262, 263, 270,
276, 278, 279, 280, 281, 282, 283, 284, 285, 286, 306, 321, 346, 347,
835

North West Company house on Sandy l., 143, 144, 146, 153, 156; it was
built 1794

Norwood, D., 131

Nova Zembla, 242

Noyer cr., 290

Nuage Rouge, 208, 343, 347

Nueces r., 695, 696, 697, Nuesas on Hugh Murray's map of 1829

Nuestra Se√±ora de Belem, see Belen, N. M.

Nuestra Se√±ora de Guadalupe de Pojuaque, mission, see Pojuaque

Nuestra Se√±ora de Guadalupe de Zu√±i, mission, see Zu√±i

Nuestra Se√±ora de la Asumpcion de Zia, mission, see Cia

Nuestra Se√±ora de los Angeles de Pecos, mission, see Pecos

Nuestra Se√±ora de los Dolores de Sandia, 619, see Sandia pueblo

Nueva Espa√±a, 718

Nueva Galicia, 719

Nueva Viscaya, Vizcaya, 719, 720, 739, 759

Nuevo Laredo, 691

Nuevo Leon, 678, 682, 689, 690, 692, 699, 724, 726, 775, 776

Nuevo Mejico, 727, see New Mexico

Nuevo Reino de Leon, 724, 725

Nuevo San Ander, 724, 725, 726

Nuevo Santander, 724

Num Inds., 412

Nunpakea, 349

Nutrias, N. M., 629

Nutt sta., N. M., 638

Nyburg, Col., 451


O

Oahaha, Oahahah r., 7, 290, 355

Oajaca, City of, 721

Oajaca, State of, 721, 722

Oak cr., br. of Ark. r., Col., 462

Oak Grove cr., br. of Ark. r., 475

Oak l., 147, 148, see White Oak l.

Oakland Reserve, 706

Oak pt., Minn., 147, 148, see White Oak pt.

Oak pt., Wis., 295, 356

oaks, 776

Oaks, Mex., 687

Oaks, N. M., 636

Oanoska, 348

Oatishtye, one form of native name of San Felipe, N. M.

oats, 38

Oaxaca, see Oajaca

Obequelle is the form of Obiguitte in Taliaferro's Autobiog., p. 210

Obeya, Mex., 688

Obigouitte, 172, 247, 260

Observations on New Spain, Pike's, 503, 718 and to end of chap. IV.

Ocano r., 163, of Schoolcraft, 1855, for Au Canot, see Cano r.

Ocano r. of Schoolcraft, 1820, Narr., p. 257, is Cannon r., which see

Ocano spr., at head of Ocano r. or Andrus cr., named by Brower

Ocapa, 559

Ocat√© r., 558

Ochangras, 346, 347

Ochente Shakoan, 345

Ochungraw, 31

O'Connell's isl., 19

Odelltown, N. Y., lxxxiv

[OE]conomy, see Economy

Oetbatons, 313

Oganga l. is Schoolcraft's name, 1820, for the first lake on the Miss.
r. below L. Bemidji, appar. that he later called Pamitascodiac or
Tascodiac, _i. e._, Lake Vandermaelen of Nicollet

Ogawahasa, 591

Ogden, Maj. E. A., 405

Ogdensburg, lxxxv

Ogechie l., 316

Ogo mall a Ukap, 649, 650

Oguoppa, 559

Ohio, cx, cxi, 686, 836

Ohio r., xxv, xxxi, xxxii, 229, 656, 657

Oholoa√Øtha, 66, 69

Oil cr., 462, 463, 464, 465, 477, 480

Ojibwa Inds., lxxvi, 30, 31, 170, see Chippewa Inds.

Ojibwa res., 314

Ojibway, Minn., was a paper town which never materialized. Townsite
surveyed 1856 by J. R. Moulton; it extended E. 7/8 m. from mouth of
"Palm" (= Mud) r. and S. 5/8 m. from mouth of Sesabagomag r., thus
adjoining present Aitkin. A furore was raised and shares sold at
fabulous prices, but there was never a building on it. This is
satirized by Charles Hallock in Harper's Mag., XIX, 1859, pp. 50, 51,
by the name of City of Chippewa. There were named an East Ojibway and
a West Ojibway. Mr. A. J. Hill sends me an original certificate of a
share in the latter, No. 77, date 1856

Ojo Caliente, Col., 495, 496

Ojo Caliente, N. M., 597, 600, 816

Ojo Caliente, N. M., near Zu√±i, 742

Ojo Caliente sta., Chihuahua, 652

Ojo Caliente sta., N. M., 597

Ojo de Callejon, 652

Ojo del Muerto, 636, 637

Ojo de Lotario, 651

Ojo de Malayuque or Samalayuca, 650

Ojo Lucero, 651

Ojo Malalka, 650

Ojo Oso, 746

Ojo San Bernardo, 672

Ojo San Blas, 672

Ojos Calientes, Chihuahua, 652

Ojos Calientes, on Jemez r., N. M., 615

Oklahoma, 412, 550, 552, 554, 555, 556, 559

Olathe, Kas., 519

Old Baldy mt., Col., 493

Old Baldy mt., N. M., 632

Old Bustard, a chf., 89

Old Fort Toronto, lxxv

Old French fort near Trempealeau, 54

Old French fort, see Fort Rouill√©

Old Man's rap., 376, 539

Old Pawnee village, 410

Old Priest, a chf., 87

Old Sioux village, 348

Old Zu√±i, a group of six small pueblos occupied between 1680 and 1705

oligarchies, aboriginal, 526

Olla mt., 598

Olmeda, see Asuncion, Fray de la

Olmsted's bar, 126, 179, spelling preferable to Olmstead, as no doubt
named for S. Baldwin Olmsted, a lumberman of Belle Prairie. One David
Olmsted came to Minn. in 1848 with Winnebagoes who were then removed
to Long Prairie

Olney, Col., 448

Olopier, 347

Olpe, Kas., 399, 400

Omaha Inds., 344, 525, 526, 559, and see Mahaw Inds.

Omoshkos r., 124

Omoshkos Sogiagon, 158, 166, 289

Omri, 301

Omushkozo-sagaiigun is same as Omoshkos Sogiagon. (Gilfillan.)

Onalaska, Wis., 53

O√±ate, Cristobal de, Governor of New Galicia in 1539, was father of
the next

O√±ate, Juan de, 607, 755, 756. O√±ate's first settlement in 1598, date
often given as that of founding of Santa F√©, N. M., by him, was not
there, but at confluence of Rio Chama with Rio Grande, opp. San Juan,
N. M., near present Chamita sta. of the railroad; he there began to
build what he called San Francisco de los Espa√±oles Aug. 23d, 1598,
and the settlement was called San Gabriel in 1599; ruins visible till
about 1694; only establishment of whites in N. M. till 1608, when
O√±ate repaired to location of present Santa F√©. (Bandelier.)

One-eye, One-eyed Sioux, 88

One Hundred and Forty-two Mile cr., 518, 521

One Hundred and Ten Mile cr., 518, 520

Oneida, a ship, lxxxiii

Onion cr., 521

Onisconsin r., 35

Onomonikana-sibi, 147

Ontario, see Lake

Ontario, a ship, lxxxiii

Ontario, U. C., lxxv, lxxvi, lxxx, 168, 274, 278

Ontero's hacienda, 626

Oole, a chf., 157, 347

Ootyiti is Cochiti

Opejas, 773

Opening of the Virgin, 706

Opii, 744

Oppelousas, liii

opuggiddiwanan, 135

opuntia, 681

Oquawka, Ill., 19, 21

Oraibi, 744

Orano or Orono, Minn., is a village on the knoll 1¬Ω m. W. of Elk
River, laid out 10 years before the latter, and for some years the
county-seat

Oraybe, 730, 743, 744

Orchards, N. M., 633

Order of Malta, 657

Oregan, The, 727

Oregon trail, 519

O'Reilly, Oreily, Gov. or Gen. A., 214, 714

Orejas mt., 598

orenac, 87

Organ, N. M., 640

Organ, Organic, Organon mts., 631, 640

Orick's ldg., 361

Original Leve, 83, 84, 85, 87, 240

orignac, 87

Orignal Lev√©, 87, 240, 347

orignal, oriniac, 87

Orizaba, 722

Orizaba mt., 722

Orleans, see New Orleans

Orleans parish, La., cx

Orleans territory, 411

Oronos isls., plural, not Orono's or Oranos, 98, see Orano

Oronto bay, 306

Orphan r., 451

Orrick's ldg., 361

Ortelius, 288

Ortiz, Chihuahua, 668

Ortiz hills, 597

Orton's isl., 10, 11

Oruilla, 674

Oryze√¶, 39

Osage Agency, 555

Osage agriculture, 532

Osage basin, 395, 396

Osage Bluff, Mo., 372

Osage census, 590

Osage City, Mo., 371

Osage co., Kas., 520

Osage co., Mo., 368, 369, 371, 372

Osage cooks, 528

Osage divisions, 529

Osage feasts, 528

Osage fk. of Gasconade r., 376

Osage Inds., 229, 338, 347, 358, 359, 360, 367, 372, 381, 382, 387,
388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393, 394, 402, 409, 410, 414, 417, 418, 422,
432, 513, 514, 525, 526, 527, 531, 532, 533, 534, 535, 536, 537, 540,
541, 542, 543, 546, 549, 555, 556, 557, 558, 559, 562, 565, 566, 567,
573, 574, 576, 583, 584, 585, 586, 588, 589, 590, 591, 692, 694, 697,
752, 845, 846, and see Grand and Little

Osage Inds., Ark. band of, 529, 530, 532

Osage Iron Works, Mo., 376

Osage lodges, 528, 529

Osage magic, 527

Osage massacre, 531

Osage, Minn., 318

Osage orange, 816

Osage r., xxiii, li, 68, 225, 229, 357, 368 and following to 385, 473,
512, 513, 514, 515, 518, 519, 523, 529, 539, 555, 556, 557, 568, 569,
573, 576, 584, 591, 756, 757, 815, 818, 837, 840, 845

Osage tp., Mo., 390

Osage towns or villages, 395, 513, 514, 516, 560, 577, 580, 581, and
see Grand and Little

Osagi, 338

Osakis l., 316

Osakis r., 101

Osaukee, Osauki, Osawki, 101, 338

Osceola Mills, Wis., 309

Osceola, Mo., 382, 383

Osha pk., 629

Oshkosh, Wis., 300, 301

Ossowa l., 162, see Assawa l.

Ossowa l., on Crow Wing route, 128

Oswego, N. Y., lxxv

Otagamis, 338

Otchagra Inds., 39

Otchipwe Dictionary, 102

Otentas r., 13

Otermin, Gov., 641

Otero, A. J., 607

Otero co., Col., 445, 447

Otoe, a place, 556

Oto Inds., 340, 367, 525, 526, 536, 544, 583, 591

Otsego, Minn., 98

Ottagamie, Ottagaumie, Ottaguamie Inds., 36, 307, 346, 347

Ottahtongoomlishcah, 201

Ottawa co., Kas., 405

Ottawa cr., 519, 520

Ottawa Inds., 297, 299, 351, and see Ottoway

Ottawa, Kas., 519, 520

Ottawa, Ont., lxxx, xcii

Ottawa, Ottawaw lakes, 296, 306, 309

Otter cr., br. of Miss. r., in Ill., 27

Otter cr., br. of Miss. r., in Minn., 98

Otter cr., br. of Neosho r., 399

Otter isl., Miss. r., 19

Otter isl., Mo. r., 366, 367

Otter r., br. of Mo. r., 366, 367

Otter sl., Mo. r., 366

Otter Tail co., Minn., 128, 317, 318

Otter Tail l., 128, 317, 326, 349, 351

Otter Tail pt., 153, 334

Otter Tail r., 318

Otter Tail traverse, 101

Ottonwey r., 94

Ottoway Inds., 347, 351, and see Ottawa Inds.

Ouaboucha is a F. form of Wapasha

Ouadebaetons, 313

Ouachipouanes, Cree name of the Mandans

Ouapikoutee, Ouapikouti, 8apik8ti, 349

Ouate, see O√±ate

Ouchata r., 612

Ouchipawah, 257, 346, 347

Ouchipewa Sippi, 355

Ouchipouwaictz r., 60

Oude r., 702

Oufotu, 559

Ouinipigou, 31

Ouinipigous, 31

Ouinipique l., 322

Ouisconsin, Ouisconsinc, Ouisconsing, Ouisconching r., 35, 38

Ouiseconsaint, name of Wisconsin r. in Malhiot's Jour. of 1804,
Masson, I. 1889, p. 235. Also Ouisseconsaint

Ouiscousing r., 35, 36, 180, 224, 265, 294, 302, 303, 304, 306, 308,
340, 347, 355, 843

Ousconsing r., in Schoolcraft, Narr. of, 1820

Ouscousin r., 35

Outagamas, 308

Outagamie co., Wis., 299, 300

Outaouas, 296

Outard, Outarde Blanche, 89, 90

8tantas, Outontantas, 8t8ntes r., 13

Oviscousin r., 35

Ovis montana, 438, 476

Owah-Menah, given as Sioux name of St. Anthony falls in Schoolcraft,
1820

Owen, Dr. D. D., 4, 6, 8, 14, 16, 18, 24, 26, 28, 34, 49, 57, 58, 70,
99, 101, 122, 123, 124, 127, 135, 136, 143, 147, 159, 324

Owings, Pvt. D., 1, 114, 854

Owisconsin, Owisconsing r., 35

Owl cr., 425, 518

Owl l. of Beltrami is Ball Club l.

Oxaca, 721, 722, 723

Ox-portage rap., 142

Ozagig, 101

Ozark mts., 370

Ozaukee, 101

Ozawindib, 158, 328, 331

Ozawindib isl., 158, 159

Ozawindib pt., 167, so named by Brower, for Schoolcraft's guide of
1832

Ozawindib village, 158


P

Pacaua l., 301

Pacific ocean or waters, xlv, xlviii, xlix, 444, 466, 470, 471, 522,
644, 645, 718, 720, 727, 732, 733, 774, 805

Packegamau, Packegamaw falls or l., 147, 321, 356, see Pokegama

Packwaukee, 301

paddlefish, 5

Padillas, 626

Padoucas, Paducahs, 412, 536, 591, 757

Pagadawin, Pagadowan l., 150

Pago is Pecos

Paguate, 630, 745

Pahuska, 558, see White Hair

Paike, see Mungo-Meri-Paike

Pain Court, Mo., 214

Paine l., 161, named for Bartlett C. Paine, of Indianapolis, Ind.

Paine, Thos., 154

Paint cr., 41

Painted Rock cr., 41

Painted rock, in Kas., 433

Painted Rock, Minn., 41, 206

Painted Rock raps., or Little falls, Minn., 123, 316

painted stone, 73

Pajarito, N. M., 621, 626, pop. 500 in 1853, see Tousac and St.
Fernandez, N. M.

Pakagama falls, 146, 147, see Pokegama

Pakegamanguen, Pakegomag l., 147

Palayo, see Pelayo

Palisade r., 289

Pallalein, 764

Palmburg, Minn., 138, was laid out in Oct., 1856, by B. C. Borden, but
never lived. The plot occupied the N. half of Sect. 25, tp. 50, R. 24,
4th mer., and extended 1/16 of a mile over into the sects. to the N.
and E.

palmetto, 776

Palm r. is a quondam name of that Mud r. or Ripple cr. on which is
Aitkin, Minn.

Palm r., Tamaulipas, 724

Palms, River of, 289

Palo Alto, battle of, 675

Palomas l., 650

Palomo r., 637

Palomos, N. M., 637

Pamajiggermug l., 161

Pamitascodiac l., 160, of Schoolcraft, 1855, is same as his Tascodiac
l., is one of his two Andrusian lakes, and is Nicollet's Vandermaelen
l.

Pamitchi Gumaug, 331

Pamitchi l., 161

Panami, etc., r., 731

Pananas, Pananis, 255, 815, see Pawnee Inds.

panhandle, 692

Panis, 563, 567, 568, 569, 574, 578, 581, 590, 591, 697, see Pawnee
Inds.

Panisciowa, 86

Panther cr., 373

Panther cr., another, 385

Paola, Kas., 519

Paotes r., 13

Pa8itig8ecii or Paouitigouecii, De Creux, 1684, a name of the
Saulteurs; compare Pawtucket

Papagos, 735

Papa Paulo III., 599

Pap chute, 57

papers, examination of Pike's, 610

Papinsville, Mo., 385

Papoose isl., 25

Paquiu, 737

paradise, a terrestrial, 676, 677

Paraje, Paraje ferry, 634, 635

Parallel r., 97

Paras, see Parras

Parent, Emily F., 364

Parent, P., see Parrant

Parida, N. M., 633

Paris, France, 77

Paris, Kas., 422

Paris, treaty of, 213, 657

Parkdale, Col., 462, 465, 476, 477

Parke, J. G., 645

Parker tp., Minn., 124

Park, Itasca State, 164

Parkman, F., 714

Park, Mungo, xlv

Park on Osage r., 380, 381, 576

Park range of R. mts., 467, 468, 469, 470, 471, 847

Park Rapids, Minn., 167, 318

parra, 681

Parrant, Peter, 75, otherwise Pierre Parent and [OE]il de Cochon, see
Pig's Eye

Parras l., 681, 762

Parras, Mex., 649, 674, 676, 677, 680, 681, 682, 683, 777

parroquia, 607, 765

partridge, 175

Pashepaho, 361

Passeri, Mlle., 328

Pass, in mts., see names of passes

Pass of Cadena, 674

Passo, of Pike, see El Paso

Pass of Three Rivers mt., 685

Pass spr., 652

Pass, The, see El Paso

Pass wine or whisky, 641

Pastora, Mex., 684

Patmos, Kas., 399

Patos, hacienda, 683, 684

Patos l., 651

Patos, Mex., 674, 677, 682, 683, 684

Patos mt., 685

Patterson pt., 296

Patton, an old man, 367

Patton's pt. and ldg., 365

Pattos, see Patos

Paul III., 599

Paulier, Mr., 99, 193, 194, 195, see Porlier, J.

Pauns, Paunts, 31

Pauwaicun l., 300

Pavon, 720, see Morelos y

Pawating, a form of the Ojibwa name of the Sault Ste. Marie; compare
Powhatan

Pawmaygun l., 300

Pawnane, 590

Pawnee Agency, 556

Pawnee confederation, 412

Pawnee council, 414, 415, 416

Pawnee co., Kas., 429, 433, 434

Pawnee fk. of Ark. r., 425, 429, 432, 433

Pawnee games, horses, houses, 533, 534, 535

Pawnee Inds., 358, 367, 384, 391, 392, 393, 394, 402, 407, 408, 409,
410, 412, 417, 418, 419, 420, 421, 422, 423, 426, 442, 449, 450, 451,
532, 533, 534, 535, 536, 543, 544, 547, 551, 583, 587, 588, 589, 590,
591, 592, 596, 603, 611, 697, 744, 754, 815, 829, 845, 846, and see
above and below

Pawnee Loups, 412, 418, 532, 583, 590, 591

Pawnee Mahas, Mahaws, 412, 413, 544, 583

Pawnee migrations, policy, 533, 535

Pawnee Republic, 404, 409, 410, 412, 413, 419, 515, 516, 532, 541,
582, 583, 585, 590, 591, 846, and see Pawnee village

Pawnee rock, 432, 453

Pawnee Rock, Kas., 433

Pawnees, Spanish influence on, 535, 537

Pawnee village, xlix, 357, 405, 407, 409, 410, 414, 516, 541, 542,
552, 560, 592, see Scandia

Pawnee village, old, 410

Pawnee wars, 535

Pawnee Wolves, see Pawnee Loups

Pawns, 31

Paykie is a Spanish form of Pike's name

Payogona is Pecos

Peace Rock, of Schoolcraft, is the stony hill in Stearns co., Minn., ¬Ω
m. below mouth of Little Rock r.

Peacock, A., lxxix

Peak, see names of peaks

Peak of Teneriffe, 461

Peakers, cxii

Pearce, Col. C., ci

Pearl l., 90

Pearsall, Tex., 690

Pears, Joel, liii

Pearson's br., 377

Peau Blanche, 347

Pecagama, 147, see Pokegama

peccary, 697, 777, 782

Pecit, 347

Peckagama, 327, see Pokegama

Peck's cr., 459

Pecos ca√±on, 737

Pecos, N. M., 737

Pecos pueblo, old, 737. In 1885 28 Pecos Inds. were living at Jemez;
the Pecos and Jemez together formed a "tribe" of the Ta√±oan stock

Pecos r., 631, 632, 736, 737, 762

Pecucio, Pecucis, 606

Peel isl., 18

Pekitanoui is an old name of the Mo. r., about 1750

Pekushino r., 102

Pelagius, Pelayo, a person, 674

Pelayo, Mex., 673, 674

Pel√©e isl., 65, 71, 73, 77

Pelia, 673

Pelican bend and isl., 360, 361

Pelican isl., Leech l., 153

Pelican l., 133

Peltier, Isidore, 194

peltries, return of furs and, 284, 285

Pembina, N. Dak., 328, 332

Pemidji l., 161

Pe√±a Blanca, N. M., 606, 607, 615

Pen√°culos, Los, 635

Pe√±a, Mex., 677

Pe√±asca Blanca, N. M., 630

Penechon, 86

Penicaut, 71

Penichon, Penition, 86

Pennsylvania, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, lxxxix, ci, cx, cxi, 656, 715

Penrose, C. B., 10

peonage, 768

People descended from Ferns, 345

People of Lake Thousand-lakes, 313

People of Spirit l., 314, 345

People of the Ferns, 345

People of the Lakes, 69, 346, 347

People of the Leaves, 258, 345, 346, 347

People of the Leaves detached, 346, 347

People that Shoot at Leaves, 345

Peoria, Ill., 3

Peouareas r., 13

Peouerias, 48

Pepin co., Wis., 61, 62, 64

Pepin l., 34, 44, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 72, 78, 80, 198,
202, 203, 205, 243, 264, 307, 308, 342, 348

Pepin, personal name, 65. One Jean Pepin married Madeline Loiseau at
Boucherville, Nov. 23d, 1685. A connection of the leader of the
expedition of 1727 was the wife of a Pepin, Neill in Minn. Hist. Soc.
Coll., X. 1888. Boucher had an uncle named Pepin, Kirk, Illust. Hist.
Minn.

Pepin, Wis., 63

Peralta, N. M., 626, 628, 629. The name is modern; see St. Fernandez,
N. M.

Perchas r., 637

Perch l., 162

Perham, Minn., 318

Perillo, N. M., 636

Perkins, lxxix

Perlier, Mr., 99, 193, see Porlier, J.

Permidji l., 161, for Bemidji on Stieler's Hand Atlas

Peronal, Mex., 674, 675

Perreault, 338

Perrique cr. is Peruque cr.

Perrot, N., 35, 48, 59, 71, 77, 80, 288, 296, 313

Perruque isl., 4

Perry isl., 4

Perseus, 67

Pert, a ship, lxxxiii, c

Peru, 677, 678, 725, 739

Peruque cr. and isl., 4

Petaca, N. M., 598

Peterah cr., 94

Peter, Lt. Geo., 229

Peterson, M., 222

Petessung, 343, 347

Petit Cap au Gr√®s, 38

Petit Corbeau, Fox chf., 347

Petit Corbeau, Carbeau, Sioux chf., 40, 74, 82, 83, 84, 85, 89, 182,
200, 201, 231, 238, 243, 257, 310, 347, 348

Petit D'Etroit, d√©troit, 297, 356

Petite chute, Fox r., 299

Petite Rivi√®re au Vase, Vaseuse, 369

Petites Coquilles isl., cx

Petites C√¥tes, 214, 361

Petite Shute, 356, see Pokegama

Petit Grey or Gris, 38, 224, 304

Petit Kakalin, Kaukauna, 299

Petit Mort, 338

Petit Osage, 590, 591, see Little Osage

Phaon, 66

Pharr's isl., 6

Philadelphia, Pa., xxxiv, lxi, lxxxiv, cxiii, 602, 687, 747

Ph[oe]nix, Ariz., 728, 734, 741

Phozuangge is Pojuaque

Phragmites communis, 325

Phrynosoma douglasi, 431

Piadro mt., 638

Piasa cr. and isl., 2

Piaxtla r., 774

Picacho of Orizaba, 722

Picard du Gay, 64, 91

Picard du Gay lakes, in Itasca basin, named by Brower for Antoine
Auguelle, the Picard

Picatoire is found as a name of Purgatory r.

Picea alba, 102

Pickadee cr., 41

Pickering bay, 153

Pickering Valley R. R., cx

Picket-wire r., 445

Pico de Teyde, 461

pictographs, 201

Picuris, 606

Picwabic r., 102

Piedra Amarilla r., 733

Piedras Negras, Mex., 691

Pierce, Benj., 646

Pierce co., Wis., 63, 64, 70, 72, 73, 243

Pierceville, Kas., 40

Piernas, Capt. P., 214, 358

Pierre Jaune r., 479, 729, 733

Pigeon cr., 637

Pigeon r., 324

pigeons, wild, 211

Pig's Eye, a person, 75

Pig's Eye marsh or l., 75, 310, 342, 348

pike, a fish, cxi, 137

Pikean source of Miss. r., 151, 159

pike, a weapon, lxix

Pike bay, see Pike's bay

Pike, Capt. John, xx, lix

Pike City, Cal., cx

Pike, Clarissa Harlowe, xxxii

Pike counties, various, cx

Pike co., Ill., cxi, cxii, 6, 7, 8

Pike co., Ind., cxi

Pike co., Ky., cxi

Pike co., Mo., cxi, cxii, 6, 7, 8, 9

Pike co., O., cxi

Pike cr., cx, 104, 123, 316

Pike Creek tp., Mo., cx

Pike Creek tp., Morrison co., Minn., cx, 104, 122, 123, 124

Pike, death of, c

Pike, fatal wound of, xcix

Pike Five Corners, N. Y., cx

Pike, Ill., cx

Pikeland, Pa., cx

Pike, Maj. Z., xx, xxi, xxiv, lix, 657

Pike, memoir of, xix to cxiii

Pike Mills, Pa., cx

Pike, Mrs. Z., xxi

Pike, Mrs. Z. M., xxvi, xxxi, xxxiii, 91, 211, 223, 247, 567, 576, 841

Pike, N. Y., cx

Pike, Niles' eulogy of, cv

Pike, N. C., cx

Pike, O., cx

Pike, portraits of, cxii

Pike raps., cx, 100, 104, 122

Pike r., or Willow r., 137, 320, 356

Pikes, a class of emigrants, cxi, cxii

Pikesagidowag r., 152

Pike's bay, cx, 157, 158, 324

Pike's Brigade order, lxxx

Pike's brother, lxvii

Pike's Dissertation on Louisiana, 511 to 538

Pike's Ethnography of the Miss. r., 337 to 354

Pike's fk. of Ark. r., cx, 463, 482

Pike's Geography of the Miss. r., 287 to 336

Pike's isl., cx, 76, 197, 239

Pike's letters, see Letters

Pike's mt., cx, 37

Pike's Observations on New Spain, 718 to 806

Pike's pk., cxi, cxii, 444, 451, 452, 454, 455, 456, 457, 458, 461,
462, 464

Pike's Peak Cog Ry., 456

Pike's Peak, Ind., cxi

Pike's Peak, Mich., cxi

Pike's Peak, Mont., cxi

Pike's proclamation, lxxi

Pike's regiment, lxviii, lxix

Pike's regiment, action by, cviii

Pike's speeches, see Speech

Pike's tablet, civ

Pike sta., O., cxi

Pike's treaty with Sioux, see Treaty

Pikesville, Md., cxi

Pikesville, O., cxi

Pikesville, Pa., cxi

Pike's vocabulary, see Vocabulary

Piketon, Ky., cxi

Piketon, Mo., cxi

Piketon, O., cxi

Pike tp., Berks co., Pa., cxi

Pike tp., Potter co., Pa., cx

Pike townships, various, cx

Pikeville, Ala., cxi

Pikeville, Ind., cxi

Pikeville, Ky., cxi

Pikeville, N. C., cxi

Pikeville, O., cxi

Pikeville, Tenn., cxi

Pikeville tp., N. C., cxi

Pike, Z. M., see foregoing

Pilabo, locality of Socorro, N. M.

Pilate pk., 456

Pillagers, Pilleurs, 118, 169, 170, 171

Pilot isl., 297

Pilot knob, 83

Pima Agency, 735, 736

Pima Inds., 735

Pimas Altas, 735

Pimas Bajas, 735

Pima village, 639

Pimetoui, 3

Pi√±a Blanca, 607

Pinawan, 742

Pinchon, Pinchow, 86

Pinckney bend and pt., 365, 366

Pinckney, Capt., lxii

Pinckney, Pinckneyville, Mo., 365

Pincourt for Pain Court in John Macdonell's Journ., Masson, I. 1889,
p. 273

Pine Bend, Minn., 74

Pine bend or turn, 74

Pine Bend, Wis., 302

Pine camp, 126, 179

Pinechon, 86

Pine cr., br. of Ark. r., 470, 472

Pine cr., br. of Grape cr., 482, 483

Pine cr., discharging into Target l., 50

Pine cr., Ia., 23

Pine cr. of Pike, or Swan r., 105, 108, 122, 131, 179, 318, 319, 373

Pine cr., Pierce co., Wis., 63

Pine Creek rap., 245

Pine knoll, 175

Pine l., Aitkin co., Minn., 135

Pine l., of Otter Tail traverse, 317, 318

Pine l., on Pine r. route, 174

pinenet, 319, 321

Pine rap., 142

Pine ridge, 177

Pine r., br. of Miss. r., 130, 131, 134, 137, 153, 173, 174, 175, 177,
318, 319, 334, 351, 356

Pine r., br. of Wisconsin r., 302

Pines r., 102

Pines Tail r., 102

Pinichon, 86

Piniddiwin, Pinidiwin, Pinnidiwin l. and r., 163

Pinnacles, 635

Pinneshaw, 86

Pinnidiwin, see Piniddiwin

Pino, N. M., 606

pinole, 798

Pinos cr., 597

Pintado pueblo, 630

Piorias, 339

Piper's ldg., 361

pirogues, 23

Pisa tower, civ

Pitahauerat, 412

Pitchers r. of Beltrami, Mr. A. J. Hill thinks is the Mud r. at
Aitkin, Minn.

Pitt, lxxvi

Pittman, historian, 532

Pittsburg of the West, 453

Pittsburg, Pa., xxiv, lxii

Piutes, 733

place-names, Vocabulary of Mississippian, 355

Placentia, Newfoundland, 67

plagiarism, xli, xlii

Plantagenet l., 161, 331, 334

Plantagenian fk. or source of Miss. r., 151, 161, 162, 331, 334

Plata r., see Platte r.

Platte l., 316

platter game, 535

Platte r., br. of Miss. r., 101, 102, 103, 111, 112, 116, 184, 315,
316

Platte r., br. Mo. r., li, 340, 412, 466, 473, 479, 500, 523, 524,
532, 536, 591, 729, 733, 744, 757, 758, 831, 840, 847, 852, and see
Little, North, and South

Plattsburgh, N. Y., xxix, lxix, cix

Playing Buffalo, a chf., 347

Plaza Grande, 634

Pleasant Valley, Col., 475

Pleasant Valley cr., 518, 521

Pleasant Valley, Ia., 25

Pl√© l., 128, 317

Plum cr., in Kas., 421

Plum cr., in Minn., 99

Plum isl., 297

Plummer, S. L., 334

Plunderers, 170

plus, 283

Plympton l., 174

Poanagoan-sibi, 97

Pocan cr., 556

pocket-gopher, 97

Pockquinike, 88, 338, 347

Point Ahome, 762

point, as a measure of distance, 135

Point au Chene, 356

Point Clinton, 306

Point de Sable, 307, 356

Point Douglas, 72

Point du Chene, 295

Pointe au Barque, 297

Pointe au Ch√™ne, 295

Pointe au Sable, 65

Pointe aux Ch√™nes, 148

Pointe de Sable, 61, 65

Pointe de Tour, 297

Pointed Horn, a chf., 591

Pointed rock, 41

Pointe Seul Choix, 296

Point Hill, 167

Point Hughes, 296

Point Lobos, 771

Point No Point, 62, 64, 65

Point of Rocks, Col., 492

Point of Rocks, N. M., 636

Point of Woods, 101

Point Patterson, 296

Point Prescott, 87

Point Rosa, 771

Point Sable, 299

Point St. Ignace, 295

Point Scott, 296

Point Wiggins, 297

Poison ca√±on, 492

poisoned arrows, 747

Pojoaque, Pojuaque, Pojuate, 605, 606, 630

Pokegama falls, 137, 142, 146, 147, 152, 321

Pokegama l., 143, 145, 147

Pokegoma, 147

Pokeway l., 301

Polander hollow, 42

Polecat cr., 556

Polecat r., 18

policy of Pawnees, 533

politics, Spanish, 802

Polk co., Mo., 380

Polk co., Wis., 309

Polk isl., 18

Poloss, hacienda, 683

Polvadero mts., 632

Polvaredo, N. M., 605

Polyodon spatula, 5

pomegranates, 681, and see La Grain

Pomme de Terre pra., 27

Pomme de Terre r., 378, 380

Ponca Agency, P. O., and res., 552

Ponca Inds., 559

Ponca sta., 550

Ponce de Leon, 675

Ponce de Leon, Gen., 640

Poncho cr., 474

Poncho pass, 474, 492

Po√±i r., 558

Pons naturalis, 165

Pontiac, 339

Pontoosuc, 18

Poojoge, see San Ildefonso

Pope's cr., 21

Pope's Essays, 406, 801

Pope's r., 21

Pope sta., N. M., 636

Popocatepetl, 457, 722

Populus, 728

Populus angustifolia, 494

Porcupine Quill cr., 63

Porfirio Diaz, 691

Porlier, Jacques, 194, 195

Portage bay, 297

Portage de Cockalin, 347

Portage des Perre, or des Peres, 347

Portage des Sioux, 2, 3, 212

Portage, Leech l. to Winnibigoshish l., 153, 323

Portage, Minn., 137

Portage, St. Croix r., 369

Portage, Wis., 302

Port Byron, Ill., 25

Port de Mort, des Morts, 297, 356

Porter, Gen. M., xxvi, xxvii

Portfolio, The, lxxix

Port Hope, Wis., 302

Portland isl., 369

Portland, Mo., 369

Port Louisa, 22

Port of the Dead, 356

Porto Rico, 576

Port Royal, Mo., 363

Port Scipio, Mo., 9

Portsmouth, 77

Portsmouth, N. H., lxvi

Porus, 652

Poskoyac r., 256

Possitonga r., 555

Poste aux Arkansas, 215, 560, 780

Post-Nicolletian explorers, 335, 336

Potatoe pra., 27

Potatoe r., 378, 380

Poteau r., br. of Ark. r., 558, 559

Poteau r., br. of Osage r., 376

Potier, Pothier, Mr., 99, 193, 194

Potowatomie Inds., 297, 347, 358, 367, 526, 531, 540, 574, 579, 591

Potowatomies isl., 356

Potrero de las Vegas, 745

Potrero, N. M., 605

Potrero San Miguel, 745

Potrero Viejo, 745

Potrillo, Mex., 688

Potteau, Pottoe r., br. of Ark. r., 558, 559

Potter co., Pa., cx

Potter's isl., 16

Potter, Wm., 734

Pottoe r., br. of Osage r., 376, 377, 378

Pottoe r., see Poteau r.

Poualak, see Assiniboine

Pou isl., 297

Pou√±el r., 558

Poutowatomies, 297

Poux isl., 297

Povete, N. M., 639

Powell, Maj. J. W., 39, 443, 705, 713

Poygan l., 300, 301, 340

Pozo, Pozzo, Mex., 677, 680, 682

Prado, J., 646

Prague, lxvi

Prairie √† la Crosse, 51

Prairie √† l'Aile, Aux Ailes, 54, 88

Prairie Chicken cr., 518, 521

Prairie de la Crosse, 51

Prairie des Fran√ßois, 342, 343

prairie dogs, 430, 431

Prairie du Chien, Wis., cx, 20, 26, 35, 36, 37, 43, 45, 68, 82, 134,
181, 183, 196, 198, 204, 205, 209, 221, 223, 224, 230, 242, 263, 265,
266, 267, 269, 294, 295, 303, 304, 305, 339, 340, 342, 345, 346, 347,
355, 372, 405, 843

Prairie du Frappeur, 27

Prairie du Rocher, 532

Prairie la Crosse, 49

Prairie la Crosse r., 51, 305

Prairie la Port, Ia., 34

Prairie le Aisle, 54, 55

Prairie l'Eau de Vie, _i. e._, Rum r., 356

Prairie le Chien, 35

Prairie le Cross, 55

Prairie isl., 73, 77

prairie mole, 97

Prairie of Cross r., 355

Prairie Perc√©e, 127

prairie problem, 525

Prairie r., br. of Miss. r., 145, 321

Prairie r., feeder of Sandy l., 138, 168, 321

prairie-squirrels, 429

Pratt, a deserter, 687

prehistoric village at Lake Itasca, 164

Preinier, Premier, 347

Premiro, Don D., 725

Prentis, N. L., xlvii, xlviii, lvi, cxi, cxii

Prescott, Ariz., 727, 734, 747, 748

Prescott plains, 727

Prescott, William Hickling, 727

Prescott, Wis., 72, 73, 243

President of the U. S., lviii, 238, 239, 254, and see names of
presidents

Presidio de Carracal, 651

Presidio de las Juntas, Santas, 669

Presidio del Norte, 642, 669, 736, 762, 770

Presidio del Rio Grande, see Presidio Grande

Presidio de San Paubla, 668

Presidio de Tubson, 735

Presidio Grande, 648, 679, 689, 690, 692, 696, 729, 776, 778, 779

Presidio Pelia, 673

Presidio Rio Grande, see Presidio Grande

Presidio Salto, see Presidio Grande

Presidio San Antonio, Sonora, 773

Presidio San Elizario, 649, 650

Presidio San Pablo, 668

Presidio San Vincento, 776

Prevost, Sir Geo., lxxiii, xci, xcv

Price, Col., 446

Price, Col. W. R., 736

Price, Gen. S., 384

Price r., 732

Price's cr., 15

prices of goods in exchange, 283

Priestley, Mr., 154

Priest's rap., 298

priest temples, 741

Prince of Peace, 84

Princeton, Ia., 26

proclamation, Pike's, lxxi

Proctor cr., 377

Proctor, Mo., 377

Procyon lotor, 94, 96

Proft's cr., 372

Promontory bluffs, 487

promotions of Spanish troops, 798

Prophet r., 127

Prosopis juliflora, 704

Prospect pk., 494, 596

Providence l., 309

Providence, ways of, 841

Province of Biscay, 412, and see New Biscay

Province of Texas, see Texas

Province of Tusayan, 744

Provincias Internas, 719, and see their names

Prowers co., Col., 441, 442, 443

Prowers sta., Col., 442, 443

Preuss, C., 452

Psoralea esculenta, 73

Puans, Puant Inds., 31, 38, 39, 206, 207, 208, 209, 300, 301, 302,
303, 305, 340, 341, 346, 347

Puante r., 13

Puant rap., 300, 356

Puckaway l., 301

Puckegan cr., 301

Puckway l., 301, 340

Puebla, a state of Mexico, 718, 720, 721, 722, 723

Puebla de los Angeles, Mex., 722, 723

Pueblita, N. M., 745

Pueblito, N. M., 629

Pueblitos de Belen, 629

pueblo, see names of pueblos, besides the following

Pueblo, Col., xlix, 432, 434, 445, 451, 452, 453, 454, 455, 459, 462

Pueblo de Taos, 598

Pueblo Inds., Pueblonians, 453, 458, 598, 599, 619, 743, and see names
of them.

Pueblo revolt, 641, 756

pueblos in general, 598, 599, 742, 743. Governor Allencaster's
official census of missions and curacies of New Mexico, Nov. 20th,
1805, representing pop. of towns and pueblos practically as they were
when Pike went through, is as follows--the first figures of the
several sets being Indians, the others Spaniards: San Geronimo de
Taos, 508+1337; San Lorenzo de Picuries, 250+17; San Juan de los
Caballeros, 194+1888; Santo Thomas de Abiquiu, 134+1218; Santa Clara,
186+967; San Ildefonso, 175+176; San Francis de Namb√©, 143+37; Nuestra
Se√±ora de Guadalupe de Pojuaque, 100+177; San Diego de Tesuque,
131+188; N. S. de los Angeles de Pecos, 104+402; San Buenaventura de
Cochiti, 656+497; Santo Domingo, 333+140; San Felipe, 289+440; N. S.
de los Dolores de Sandia, 314+405; San Diego de Jemes, 264+337; N. S.
de la Asumpcion de Zia, 254+none; Santa Ana, 450+68; San Augustin de
Isleta, 419+378; N. S. de Belem, 107+1588; Santa F√©, none+2963; La
Ca√±ada, none+2188; Alburquerque, none+4294; San Est√©van de Acoma,
731+none; San Josef de la Laguna, 940+138; N. S. de Guadalupe de Zu√±i,
1470+5; Royal Garrison, none+778; jurisdiction of El Paso and pueblo,
none+6209. Total Inds. enumerated, 8,172; total Spaniards, 26,835;
grand total, 35,007.

Pueblo Viejo, 605

Puerco r., br. of Rio Grande, 629, 633

Puerco r. of the West, 730

Puerco r., see Pecos r.

Puerta, 652

Puerta de Cadena, 674

Puerta de la Virgen, 669

Puerto del Bacorelli, 731, see Bacorelli

Puerto r., see Pecos r.

Pugonakeshig r., 134

Pulaski co., Mo., 371, 375

Pumly Tar r., 380

Punames, 745

Puncho cr., 474

Puncho pass, 492

punishments of Spanish troops, 796

punk, 103

Punta de Agua, 773

Punto del Bosque, 629

Punyeestye, 745

Punyekia, 745

Purgatory r., 442, 443, 444, 445, 446, 447, 463, 517

Pursley, James, xlix, 468, 756, 757, 758

Purvis, Mo., 376

Pusityitcho, 745

Puyatye, Keresan name of Ta√±oans


Q

Qotyiti is Cochiti

Quagila, 775

Quakers, 530, 656

Quapaw, Quappa, 559, 560

Quarry Sugar cr., 15

Quashquame, 361

Quatroons, 764

Quebec, c, 714

Quebec, Province of, lxxvi

Queen Anne's l., 161

Queen Charlotte sound, 279

Queen Dido, 704

Queen's bluff, 53

Queenston, Queenstown Heights, xciv, c

Queen's wharf, Toronto, lxxviii

Quenemo, Kas., 520

Quercus nigra, 519

Quera, Queres, Queris, Quirix, 616, 745, and see Keres

Querecho, 748

Quer√©taro, 721, 723

queries proposed to Mr. Dubuque, 226

Quihi cr., 696

Quihi r., 696

Quill r. is one of Schoolcraft's names, 1855, of Crow Wing r.

Quincy, Ill., 9, 11

Quinipissas, 560

Quinn, Mr., 200

Quires is Keres

Quiver r., 4

Quizquiz, 288


R

Rabbit l., 131

Rabbit l., another, 134

Rabbit r., Col., 494, and see Conejos r.

Rabbit r., Minn., 139

Rabledillo, 639

Raccoon cr., Minn., 94

Raccoon cr., Wis., 49

Raccoon sl., 49

Race-ground, Devil's, 363

Racine r., 49, 305, 355

Racoon cr. and sl., see Raccoon

Racro isl., 297

Radisson l., in Itascan basin, named by Brower

Radisson, Marguerite H., 296

Radisson, P. E. de, 289, 295, 296

Raft channel, 49

Ragozin, Z. A., 182

Rahbahkanna l., 161

Rainey cr., 377

Rainville, Jos., see Reinville, and see biogr. in Tass√©, I. pp.
293-304. Pike's man was b. about 1779

Rain which Walks, a chf., 540, 550, 591

Rainy cr., 377

Rainy l., 80, 172, 350

Rainy Lake r., 171

Raisins r., 67

Ralls co., Mo., 7, 8

Ralph, Apache assassin, 752

Ramada, Mex., 670, 671

Rambo, 685

Ramsay, Gen. Alex., 326

Ramsay, Mr., 361

Ramsey's cr., 6

Ranche de St. Antonio, 678

Rancheria sta., Mex., 651

Ranchero mt., 637

Ranchitos d'Isleta, 626

Rancho de Taos, 598

Rancho Nuevo, 683

Rancho Sabinal, 629

Rancho San Antonio, 678, 679

Ranchos d'Albuquerque, 619

Ranchos de Belen, 629

ranchos, various unnamed, 684, 685, 688, 689

Randall tp., Minn., 124

Rand, Lt. B., xxvi, xxvii

Randolph co., Ill., 532

Randolph, Ill., 2

Raney cr., 377

rapid, see names of rapids and following

Rapides Croches, 299

Rapides des Peres, 298

Rapid r. of Long, 73

Rapids City, Ill., 25

Rapids of Painted Rock, 316

rations of Spanish troops, 798

Raton mts., 447, 558

rattlesnakes, 229, 431

Raven, a chf. (Wiahuga), 349

Raven, a Fox chf., 31

Raven, a ship, lxxxiii

Raven isl., 356

Raven r., 128, 177, 341, 346, 355, and see Crow Wing r.

Raven's Nose, a chf., 203, 208, 347

Raven's Plume r., 128

Raven's pt., 323, 324

Raven's Wing r. of Schoolcraft, 1855, is Crow Wing r.

Raymbault, 349

Raynal, G. T. F., 411

Read's ldg., 61, 62

Reale, a Mr., 173, 174. One Constant _Relle_ was employed by A. F. Co.
Aug. 3d, 1818, deserted 1819, killed winter of 1821-22: see Wis. Hist.
Soc. Coll., XII. p. 166. One Antonio _Reilh_ or _Reilhe_ appears in W.
H. S. C., XI. p. 164. These names probably the same, but different
persons

Rebecca l., 74

reboso, 787, 788

recapitulation of furs and peltries, 284, 285

Recollect priest, 64

Recovery, O., 438

Red Cedar, 157

Red Cedar cr., see Lower Red Cedar r.

Red Cedar isl. in Cass. l., 158

Red Cedar l., see Lower and Upper do.

Red Cedar r., Ia., 22, 23, 26, 292, 293

Red Cedar r., Minn., 159, 289

Red Cloud, a chf., 208, 343, 347

Red Cloud, Neb., 410

Red cr., br. of Ark. r., Col., 460

Red cr., or Red Rock cr., 556

Red Earth Inds., 338

Red fk. or Cimarron r., 552, 553, 554

Red fk. or Salt fk. of Ark. r., 552, 553, 554

Red House, N. M., 629

Red l., xlviii, 152, 156, 171, 172, 260, 280, 284, 285, 326, 332, 346,
347, 350, 351

Redmond's Ranch, Tex., 691

Red Oak pt., 147

Red Quilliou, 118

Red r., Ark. r., 589

Red r., Canadian r., xlvii, 558

Red r., Cimarron r., 705

Red r. of Arkansas, 705

Red r. of California, 742, see Colorado r.

Red r. of Louisiana or of the Miss. r., li, lv, 519, 563, 564, 565,
571, 585, 591, 592, 593, 596, 690, 694, 696, 697, 705, 710, 712, 713,
714, 727, 738, 746, 754, 805, 807, 809, 815, 822, 823, 834, 838, 847,
848, 849, 850, 852

Red r. of Natchitoches, 558, 705

Red r. of Pike, of various identifications, 412, 413, 466, 468, 469,
473, 480, 481, 482, 484, 490, 502, 504, 505, 525, 537, 624, 705

Red r. of Texas, 696, 704, 705, 781, 782, 785

Red r. of the East, 705

Red r. of the Mo. r., 523: and see Yellow-stone r.

Red r. of the North, xlviii, 128, 139, 159, 171, 172, 183, 247, 254,
263, 278, 279, 280, 317, 318, 326, 328, 343, 349, 350, 351, 354, 704

Red r. of the West, 705

Red r., Salt fk. of Ark. r., 552, 553, 554, 704

Red River trail, 326

Red r., Wis., 298, 356

Red River, Wis., 298

Redrock, 556

Red Rock cr., 556

Red Rock, Minn., 73

Red's place, 5

Red Thunder, a chf., 208, 343, 347

Red Wing, a chf., 68, 69, 202, 203, 308, 347

Red Wing band or village, 69, 70, 88

Red Wing, Minn., 62, 69, 70, 308

Reed, Joseph, liii

Reed r., 279

Rees, Dr. Thos., xxxviii, xxxix, xl, xlv

Reeves, U. S. Commissioner, 518

Refugio, Mex., 680

Regent of France, 531

Register, see Heitman, and Niles

Reid, J., 702

Reino de la Nueva Vizcaya, 759

Reino de Leon, 724

Reino de Nueva Galicia, 719

Reinulle, Reinville, Jos., 39, 40, 87, 99, 180, 207, 242, and see
Rainville

Relief l., 65

religion, 755, 770, 800

Remnicha, compounded of three words meaning "hill," "water," "wood,"
was a comprehensive Sioux name of the stretch of country from foot of
Barn bluff (La Grange) to Cannon r., about the center of which was the
old Indian village, and is the modern town, of Red Wing, drained by
the coulee nicknamed the Jordan

Remnicha cr. or r., 70

Remnichah, 70

Reno, Col., 464

Reno co., Kas., 424, 548

report of late occurrences, etc., xlvi

report on the Arkansaw, Wilkinson's, 539

report to Congress, 840, 841

Republican fk. of Kansas r., 395

Republican Pawnees, 412, 541, 542

Republican r., xlix, 357, 404, 407, 409, 410, 420, 473, 516, 543

Republic City, Kas., 409

Republic co., Kas., 408, 409, 410

Reservoir Bowl, see Greater and Lesser ditto

Resting l., Rest in the Path l., 161

return of furs and peltries, 284, 285

return of men employed, etc., 286

return of military force in New Spain, 793

return of persons, etc., 1

revenue, Spanish, 791, 792

revolt of the pueblos, 756

Revolutionary army, xxvi, xxvii, lvi

Revolutionary War, 183

Rey, Don P. R., 646

Reynard Inds., 25, 26, 31, 35, 36, 209, 293, 303, 307, 337, 338, 339,
341, 346, 347, 361, 591, and see Fox Inds.

Reynolds, John, 657

Rhoades, Kas., 403

Rhodes hill, 167, named for D. C. Rhodes, of Verndale, Minn.,
photographer, by Brower

Rhyolite pk., 465

Rib r., 494

rice, 38

Rice co., Kas., 424, 522

Rice cr. (= Nagajika cr., near Brainerd), 131

Rice-eaters, 39

Rice l., a pond near Winnibigoshish dam, 325

Rice l., discharging by Rice Lake or Sandy Lake r., into Sandy l., 137

Rice l. = L. Ann, 90

Rice l. (near Sisibakwet l.), 147

Rice l., on Fox r., Wis., 302

Rice l. (= Pinidiwin l.), 163

Rice l., see Big Rice l.

Rice Lake r., a feeder of Sandy l., 137

Rice lakes, near Iowa r., 292

Rice or Manomin cr., Anoka co., 94

Rice r. (in Aitkin co., 4¬Ω m. above mouth of Mud r.), 136, 137, 320

Rice r. (= Nagajika cr., near Brainerd), 131

Rice, Willard, 747

Richardson and Co., 139

Richardson, Dr. John, 97

Richardson, Judge N., 106, 107, 123

Richards, Stephen, liv

Rich Hill, Mo., 390

Richland co., Wis., 302

Rich Man, a chf., 542, 591

Richmond, Minn., 53

Richmond, Va., 826

Riddle, Lt. D., lxxxix, ci

Ridgway library, xxxiv

Riggs and Pond, 43

Riggs' Dictionary, 118

Riggs' ranche, 465

Riggs, Rev. S. R., 85, b. Steubenville, O., Mar. 23d, 1812, d. Beloit,
Wis., Aug. 24th, 1883

Rigi mt., 454

Riley, Pvt., 332

Rinconada, N. M., 606

Rincon, N. M., 636, 638, 639

Rinehart, Mo., 394

Rineland ldg., 367

Ringgold barracks, 682, 692

Rio, see names of rivers besides the following

Rio Abajo, 729

Rio Alamo, 691

Rio Alamos, 771, 774

Rio Alamosa, 637

Rio Alcontre, 691

Rio Allende, 670

Rio Almagra, Almagre, 452

Rio Altar, 771

Rio Angelina, 709, 710

Rio Animas, 637

Rio Arriba, 729

Rio Atoyac, 721

Rio Azul, 735

Rio Bavispe, 771

Rio Bravo, 641, 642, 643, 645, 729, 730, and see Rio del Norte, Rio
Grande. Name Rio Bravo extant before 1600

Rio Brazos, 781

Rio Caliente, 597, 600

Rio Ca√±ada, Ca√±adiano, 558, 606, and see Canadian r.

Rio Carmen, 651, 652

Rio Chacito, 614

Rio Chaco, 630, 731

Rio Chasco, 731

Rio Chama, 597, 600, 601, 604, 629

Rio Chelly, 731

Rio Chusco, 731

Rio Cibolo, 697, 703

Rio Colorado, Canadian r., xlvii

Rio Colorado del Este, 705

Rio Colorado del Occidente, 705

Rio Colorado of California, 522, 523, 524, 622, 623, 644, 730, 734,
735, 736

Rio Colorado of Texas, 698, 704, 705, 781

Rio Colorado, see Red r. of Louisiana

Rio Conchos, 642, 668, 669, 670, 762, 765

Rio Conejos, 358, 359, 483, 484, 494, 495, 496, 497, 499, 595, 596,
597, 622, 816, 848, 855

Rio Costilla, 494

Rio Cuchillo Negro, 637

Rio Culebra, 445, 494, 507

Rio Culiacan, Culican, 774

Rio de Barral, 670

Rio de Buena Guia, so called in 1540, is the Rio Colorado

Rio de Carracal, 651

Rio de la Antigua, 722

Rio de la Ascencion, 771

Rio de la Asuncion, 734, more fully called Rio de Nuestra Se√±ora de la
Asuncion or Asumpcion; name appears in Venegas, Hist. Cala., 1757

Rio de la Culebra, 494

Rio de las Anamas, Animas, 445, 731

Rio de las Animas Perdidas was a name of Purgatory r.

Rio de las Palizadas, 289

Rio de las Palmas, 289

Rio de las Palmas, Mex., 724

Rio de las Vacas, before 1600, is Pecos r.

Rio del Espiritu Santo, 288

Rio del Fuerte, 762, 774, named for Fuerte de Montes Claros, built
1610

Rio de Lino, of Coronado, 1540, is the Colorado Chiquito, hence called
Flax r.

Rio del Nombre de Jesus is the name originally given to the Gila r. by
Juan de O√±ate, 1604

Rio del Norte, xlvi, 494, 497, 509, 521, 523, 524, 535, 541, 595, 596,
640, 641, 642, 678, 728, 729, 730, 731, 733, 736, 737, 738, 744, 756,
762, 809, 816, 822, 838, 848, 849, 850, 851; name probably originated
on Don Antonio Espejo's exped. of 1582. See Rio Grande

Rio de los Anamas, 730, 732

Rio de los Apostoles, 734, see Apostles' r.

Rio de los Brazos de Dios, 706

Rio de los Dolores, 730, 732

Rio de los Duimas, 732, of Pike, identification confirmed; it is
simply error of transcribing Rio de las Animas from Humboldt's map

Rio de los Martires appears on Humboldt's map and above it the legend
Tout ce Pays de puis la mission de Zu√±i jusqu'aux Indiens Cobaji a √©t√©
visit√© par le P√®re Pedro Font, 1775. Name originated with Father Kino,
1699, who first applied it to the Col. r.

Rio de los Palisados, 289

Rio de los Panami, etc., 731

Rio del Tizon, see Colorado r.

Rio de Nanesi, Napesi, Napestle, 448, 481

Rio de Nasas, 673

Rio de Ozul, 735

Rio de Piedro Amaretto del Missouri, 733

Rio de San Clemente, 733

Rio de Santa Buenaventura, 733

Rio de Santa F√©, 606, 607

Rio de Taos, 598

Rio El Rosario, 774

Rio Escondido, 289

Rio Florida, Florido, 669, 670, 671, 762

Rio Frio, 696

Rio Galisteo, 615

Rio Gila, Hila, Jila, Xila, 637, 644, 645, 730, 734, 735, 736, 741,
742, and see Gila r.

Rio Grande, xlix, lv, 288, 444, 445, 463, 474, 482, 483, 490, 492,
493, 494, continuously to 648, 650, 651, 669, 682, 685, 689, 690, 691,
692, 693, 695, 697, 712, 724, 729, 730, 731, 733, 734, 736, 744, 745,
746, 747, 756, 775, 776, 778, 779, 816, 822, and see Rio del Norte.
Name Rio Grande found in narrative of exped. of Gaspar Casta√±o de
Sosa, 1591

Rio Grande City, Tex., 692

Rio Grande de Buena Esperanza is the Colorado of the West, so named by
Juan de O√±ate in 1604

Rio Grande de los Apostolos, 734

Rio Grande de Santiago, 719

Rio Guadalupe, 780, 781

Rio Guanabel, 677, 678, 681

Rio Hondo, 696, 697

Rio Jasquevilla, 730

Rio Jemez, 615, 616, 629, 745

Rio Jimenez, 724

Rio Magdalena, 771

Rio Mariano, 697

Rio Matape, 771, 773

Rio Mayo, 771

Rio Mazatlan, 774

Rio Meteros, 682

Rio Mexicano, 682

Rio Moctezuma, 771

Rio Nabajoa, 730

Rio Napeste, 448

Rio Nasas, Nassas, Nazas, 673, 677, 678, 679, 681, 762

Rio Navajo, 731

Rio Oude, 702

Rio Palomo, 637

Rio Pecos, 631, 632, 736

Rio Perchas, 637

Rio Piaxtla, 774

Rio Puerco, 629, 633

Rio Puerco of the West, 730

Rio Puerco, or Puerto, for Pecos, 632, 736

Rio Purgatorio, 445

Rio Quiburi, before 1700, name of San Pedro r., br. of the Gila

Rio Quihi, 696

Rio Rojo, Roxo, 705

Rio Sabinas, 679, 685, 687, 688, 689, 691, 776

Rio Salado, Ariz., 734

Rio Salado, Mex., 691, 776

Rio Salado, N. M., 632

Rio Salinas, 682, 685

Rio Salinas, br. of Gila r., 734

Rio San Antonio, br. of Rio Conejos, 682, 685

Rio San Antonio, br. of Rio Grande, 780, 781

Rio San Buenaventura, 733

Rio San Francisco, br. of Gila r., 735, 741

Rio San Francisco del Tigre, 682

Rio San Jos√©, 745

Rio San Juan, Mex., 682, 685, 692, 776

Rio San Juan, N. M., 630, 731, 746

Rio San Lorenzo, Sinaloa, 774

Rio San Marco, 703, 704, 781

Rio San Maria, see Santa Maria r. 730

Rio San Miguel, Mex., 774

Rio San Miguel, Tex., 696

Rio San Paubla, 668, 762

Rio San Pedro, br. of Gila r., 735

Rio San Pedro, in Chihuahua, 668, 669, 762

Rio San Rafael, 730

Rio Santa F√©, 606, 607, 613, 614

Rio Santa Teresa, 707

Rio San Xavier, 730

Rios, Capt., 357, 358

Rios, Don F., 214

Rio Seco, 696

Rio Tigre, 682

Rio Toyac, 710

Rio Trinidad, 707, 708

Rio Verde, Ariz., 727, 730, 734

Rio Verde, Mex., 721

Rio Yampancas, 738

Rio Yaqui, 771, 772

Rio Zanguananos, 732

Rio Zu√±i, 630

Ripley, 179, see Fort Ripley

Ripley, Col. E. W., lxxxi

Ripple cr., 135

Rising Moose, a chf., 87, 347

Rising Sun, Minn., 52, 53

Rita Servilleta, 597

Rita Vallecita, 597

Rito Alto mt., 483

Rito San Jos√©, 630

Riveaux cr., 370

River, see names of rivers, also under Rio and Rivi√®re, and some
following

Rivera, Mex., 685

River of Arcs, 815

River of Chihuahua, 765

River of Embarrassments, 355

River of Lake Traverse, 160

River of Means, 355

River of Palms, 289

River of Rabbits, 816

River of the Arms of God, 706

River of the Boiling Spring, 452

River of the Fort, 774

River of the Issati, 95

River of the Mountain which Soaks, etc., 54, 356

River of the Prairie of Cross, 355

River of Wild Bulls, 58

Rivers, Capt. F., 214

Riverside, Minn., is a town site in Fridley tp., Anoka co., 1 m. above
mouth of Rice cr.

Riverside sta., Col., 470, 472

River that Divides Itself in Two, 289

Riverview, Mo., 377

Rivi√®re, see names of rivers, also under Rio and River, besides the
following

Riviere a Canon, 356

Rivi√®re a Cigue, for √† Cigne, 356

Rivi√®re √† l'Aile de Corbeau, 128

Rivi√®re √† la Biche, 289

Rivi√®re √† la Crosse, 322

Rivi√®re √† la Roche, 24

Rivi√®re √† l'Ours, l'Ourse, 370

Rivi√®re √† Loutre, 366

Rivi√®re Antoine, 213

Rivi√®re au B[oe]uf, br. of Miss. r., in Mo., 4, 355

Rivi√®re au B[oe]uf, br. of Miss. r., in Wis., 56, 305

Rivi√®re au B[oe]uf, br. of Mo. r., 365

Rivi√®re au Bois d'Arc, 815

Rivi√®re au Canon, 67, 308, 342

Rivi√®re au Dindon, 355

Rivi√®re au Feve, Fevre, see Fever r.

Rivi√®re au Milieu, 559

Rivi√®re au Pin, 356

Rivi√®re au Sel, 7, 355

Rivi√®re au Sol√© (for au Saule) of Schoolcraft, 1820, also Alder r., is
Willow r., Aitkin co., Minn.

Rivi√®re aux Embarras, 57

Rivi√®re aux Feuilles, 356

Rivi√®re aux Fr√™nes, 366

Rivi√®re aux Racines, 49, 355

Rivi√®re aux Raisins, 67

Rivi√®re aux B[oe]ufs, 65

Rivi√®re aux Canots, 67

Rivi√®re aux C√®dres Rouges, 289

Rivi√®re aux Riveaux, 370

Rivi√®re aux Saukes, 101, 356

Rivi√®re de Ayoua, 355

Rivi√®re de Bon Secours, 58, 65

Rivi√®re de Buade, 289

Rivi√®re de Colbert, 289

Rivi√®re de Corbeau, 104, 128, 129, 130, 189, 316, 317, 318, 319, 326,
343, 348, 350, 351, 355

Rivi√®re de la Conception, 289

Rivi√®re de la Fi√®vre, 29

Rivi√®re de la Fontaine qui Bouille, 452

Rivi√®re de la Madelaine, Magdelaine, 71, 95, 309

Rivi√®re de la Montagne qui Trempe, etc., 54, 305, 307

Rivi√®re de la Prairie de Crosse, 355

Rivi√®re de l'Eau de Vie, 96

Rivi√®re de Louis, 289

Rivi√®re de Louisiane, 289

Rivi√®re d'Embarras, 355

Rivi√®re de Mendeouacanion, 95

Rivi√®re de Moyen, 355

Rivi√®re de Roche, 23, 24, 25, 337, 339, 340

Rivi√®re de St. Fran√ßois, 95

Rivi√®re de St. Louis, 289

Rivi√®re des Arounoues, 49

Rivi√®res des B[oe]ufs, 58, 65

Rivi√®re de Seignelay, 3

Rivi√®re des √âpinettes, 324

Rivi√®re des Feuilles, br. of Crow Wing r., 128, 317

Rivi√®re des Feuilles, br. of Minnesota r., 326

Rivi√®re des Feuilles, br. of Miss. r., 97

Rivi√®re des Fran√ßois, 95, 313

Rivi√®re des Illinois, br. of Ark. r., 558

Rivi√®re des Illinois, br. of Miss. r., 3

Rivi√®re des Kicapous, 24

Rivi√®re des Loups, 356

Rivi√®re des Mongana, 13

Rivi√®re des Noix, 695

Rivi√®re des Ouisconsins, 35

Rivi√®re des Rochers, 355

Rivi√®re des Sioux, 95, 313

Rivi√®re de Tombeau, 71

Rivi√®re du B[oe]uf, 342

Rivi√®re du Brochet, 137, 356

Rivi√®re du Portage, 95

Rivi√®re Embarras, 56

Rivi√®re Jaune, Vermilion r., 73

Rivi√®re Jaune, Yellow r., 41, 355

Rivi√®re la Pomme, 28

Rivi√®re l'Eau Claire, 57, 355

Rivi√®re Longue, 49, 50, 67, 68

Rivi√®re Maligne, 707

Rivi√®re Morte, 49, 50, 67, 68

Rivi√®re Noir, 51, 296

Rivi√®re Puante, 13

Rivi√®re Purgatoire, 445

Rivi√®re Rouge, see Red r. of the North

Rivi√®re Rouge, Wis., 298, 356

Rivi√®re St. Croix, 71

Rivi√®re Ste. Th√©r√®se, 707

Rivi√®re St. Pierre, 356

Rivi√®re Sanglante, 332

Rivi√®re Sauteaux, 355

Rivi√®re Verte, 77, 78

Roaring r., 63

Roasters, 31

Robbers, 170

Robedoux, Mr., 6

Robert's isl., 122

Robertson, qu: Rev. Wm., 238

Robert st., St. Paul, 74

Robideau's pass, 492

Robidou of New Mexican places was Antoine (brother of Joseph, Sen.),
b. St. Louis, Aug. 29th, 1794, d. St. Joseph, Mo., Apr. 29th, 1860

Robidoux fk. of Gasconade r., named for Joseph Robidou, Sen., founder
of St. Joseph, Mo., b. Aug. 2d, 1783, d. May 27th, 1868

Robinson, Dr. J. H., xlvi, lxi, 359, 361, 364, 365, 368, 372, 373,
374, 375, 381, 382, 394, 401, 402, 408, 421, 425, 427, 428, 429, 432,
435, 444, 449, 450, 454, 457, 459, 461, 463, 464, 469, 470, 472, 476,
477, 478, 480, 482, 483, 485, 486, 487, 490, 495, 497, 498, 502, 503,
504, 510, 543, 545, 546, 566, 568, 569, 577, 589, 594, 603, 608, 621,
622, 623, 624, 627, 628, 651, 658, 659, 662, 664, 665, 666, 698, 712,
761, 766, 809, 815, 816, 824, 834, 835, 845, 848, 850, 851, 852, 854,
855

Robinson sta., Col., 447

Robledo, N. M., 636

Rob Roy Expedition, 336

Roche Blanche, 343, 344

Roche Jaune r., 479, 733

Roche, Mr., 243

Rocher Rouge cr., 63

Rochers Peints, Roches Peintes, 41

Rockbridge co., Va., 691

Rock Ca√±on, Col., 459

Rock cr., br. of Ark. r., 459

Rock cr., br. of Bull cr., 519

Rock cr., br. of Vermilion r., 400

Rock cr., near Pawnee village, Kas., 419, and see White Rock cr.

Rock creeks, two, in Kas., 518, 520

Rockdale sta., Col., 447, 448

Rockhill, W. W., preface

Rock isl., at Little Falls, Minn., 123

Rock isl., at mouth of Rock r., 210

Rock Island co., Ill., 23, 24, 293

Rock Island, Ill., 21, 23, 24, 25

Rock Island rap., 295

Rock ldg., 4

Rockport, Ill., 7, 24

Rock r., 15, 23, 24, 32, 180, 210, 222, 265, 293, 301, 303, 338, 355

Rock River raps., 209

rock-rose, 494

Rockville, Mo., 385

Rocky cr. of Pike, 103

Rocky Ford, Col., 446

Rocky hills of Pike, 26

Rocky mts., 256, 278, 332, 354, 360, 444, 452, 454, 456, 733

Rocky mts., Gates of the, 642

Rocky Mountain sheep, 438

Rocky r., 24

Rocky shoal, 167

Rocque, A., 36, 41

Rocque's trading house, 61

Rocus, Father, 659, 839

Rodriguez, Augustin, a Franciscan, at Bernalillo, N. M., in 1580

Rodriques, Rodreriques, Rodriguez, Capt. S., 411, 661

Roger, lxxix

Rogers, H. D., 333

Rojo r., 705

Rolette, Michel, 204

Rolett, Rolette, Jos., Sen., 204, full name Jean Joseph Rolette, see
Tass√©, I. pp. 143-211, portrait

Rolett, Rollet, Roulet, Mr., 36, 60, 204, 207

Rollingstone sl., 57

Rolling Thunder, a chf., 347

Roman confessional, 748

Roman Nose, a chf., 203, 205, 208

Roma, Tex., 692

Rome, Italy, 342

Rook's r., 97

Root r., 49, 50, 305, 355

Roque, A., see Rocque, Rocque's

Rosati l., 153, 155

Rosedale, Kas., 519

Rosita, Col., 484

Rosita cr., 485

Roslin, Wis., 302

Rossbach, lxvi

Rosseau, see Rousseau

roster of the party, 1

Roubideau's pass, 492

Rouen, 779

Rouill√©, A. L., lxxv

Rouill√© monument, lxxvi, lxxviii

Roulet, see Rolett

Round Grove, Kas., 518, 519

Round l., 324

Round Lake r., 324

Round mt., Col., 483, 484

Round mt., N. M., 636

Roussand, Mr., 155, 156

Rousseau channel, 36, 40

Rousseau, J. J., 801

Rousseau, Rosseau, Pierre, 39, 61, 97, 127, 184, 854

Rowan, Hon. J., lvi

Roxo r., 705

Royal Gorge, 462, 463, 466, 476, 477

Royalton, Minn., 102

Royce, C. C., 238, 239

Roy, of N. W. Co., 159, 169

Roy, Pvt. Alex., 1, 184, 186, 359, 360, 432, 482, 490, 510

Rubicon, Spanish-American, 711

Rubi, Father, 617, 618, 619, 628

rubric of rivers, 705

Rudsdell, John, 66

ruins in Arizona, 741, 742

Rule cr., 443

Rum r., 94, 95, 96, 101, 194, 196, 311, 313, 314, 343, 350, 351, 356

Running sl., 6

Running Turkey cr., 522

Ruque, see Rocque and Rocque's

Rural Cemetery, 357

Rush co., Kas., 425

Rush cr., br. of Ark. r., 460

Rush cr., Ill., 27

Rush cr., Minn., 63

Rush cr. of Lewis and Clark, 369

Rush cr., Wis., 42

Rush isl., 19

Rush l., bay of Leech l., 153

Rush l., Little Winnibigoshish l., 325

Rush l., Otter Tail series, 318

Rush l., Wis., 301

Rush pt., 325

Russell co., Kas., 404, 423

Russia, 571

Ruter, 780

Ruxton cr., 452, 456

Ruxton, G. F., 457, 598


S

Sabal palmetto, 776

Sabinal, Sabinal sta., N. M., 629

Sabinas r., 679, 685, 687, 688, 689, 691, 777

Sabine bay or l., 709, 782

Sabine co., La., 712, 713

Sabine co., Tex., 710

Sabine l., 709, 782

Sabine r., bet. La. and Tex., l, 407, 696, 702, 708, 709, 710, 711,
712, 713, 782

Sabine r., in Mex., see Sabinas r.

Sabinetown, Tex., 711, 712

Sabinez, N. M., 628, 629

Sabin's Bibl. Amer., xxxiv

Sable l., 120, 241, and see Sandy l.

Sabula, Ia., 27

Sac and Fox boundary, war, and treaty, 9, 11, 45, 367

Sac Inds., 5, 15, 16, 19, 20, 24, 31, 101, 210, 211, 293, 330, 337,
338, 339, 361, 384, 526, 551, 570, 591, and see Fox Inds.

Sackett's Harbor, lxxiii, lxxx, lxxxii, lxxxiii, xcii, xciv, xcvii,
ciii, civ, cx

Sack r., 101, see Sauk r.

Sacque, see Sac Inds.

Sacramento mts., 631, 736

Sacramento r., 654, 655

Sac r., br. of Miss. r., 315, see Sauk r.

Sac r., br. of Osage r., 381, 383, 384, 385, 514

Sacs and Foxes, see Sac Inds. and Fox Inds., also Sac and Fox

Sac village, see Sac Inds.

Saddle mt., 464, 465

Sagatagon r., 103

Saget, 780

Saguache co., Col., 491, 492

Saguache mts., 596

Saint, Sainte, as follows, abbrev. St., Ste., see also San, Santa, and
Santo

St. a f√©, St. Affe, St. Affee, lii, liii, 706, see Santa F√©

St. Albans, Mo., 362, 363

St. Ander, 724, see Santander and New San Ander

St. Anthony, 289

St. Anthony's falls, 70, 75, 82, 83, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 195, 196

St. Antoine, fort on L. Pepin, 71

St. Antonio r., 780

St. Antonio, Tex., liii, 666, 692, 697, 783, 784, 785, 786, 813, 814,
836, see San Antonio de Bexar

St. Aubert, Mo., 369

St. Aubert's isl., 370

St. Aubert sta., Mo., 370

St. Augusta, Minn., 99, 100, 194

St. Augustine, Fla., 734

St. Bernard bay, 779, 781

St. Charles bayou, 8, 11

St. Charles co., Mo., 3, 4, 360, 363, 364

St. Charles district, lvi, 10, 360

St. Charles, Mo., 214, 229, 360, 361, 511, 512, 567, 568, 569

St. Charles r., 451, 454, 463, 488, 490

St. Clair co., Mo., 371, 381, 383, 384, 385

St. Clair, Gen. A., 438

St. Cloud, Minn., 99, 100, 101, 120, 193, 315

St. Croix falls, 309, 310

St. Croix, fort, 71

St. Croix l., 72, 308

St. Croix, Ste. Croix, a trader, 71, 72

St. Croix, Ste. Croix r., 48, 52, 58, 60, 62, 65, 70, 71, 72, 73, 77,
80, 95, 205, 227, 231, 243, 279, 306, 308, 309, 338, 342, 347, 348,
350

St. Denis, St. Dennie, L. J. de, 714

St. Dies mts., 616, see Sandia mts.

St. Dies pueblo, 619, see Sandia

St. Domingo, Mex., 677, 766

St. Domingo, N. M., 615, 752

St. Elias mt., 722

St. Elizabeth, Mo., 372

Ste. Th√©r√®se r., 707

St. Ferdinand, Mo., 214

St. Ferdinand tp., Mo., 357

St. Fernandez, N. M., 624, 625, 809, 851, and see San Fernandez, N. M.
Pike's elusive "St. Fernandez" must have been Peralta itself, or that
immediate vicinity, close to Valencia. I halted him correctly there,
on p. 626. Peralta or Peralto is a modern name, and I find that there
was in 1844 a town called St. Fernandez or San Fernando, in that
place; also, Pike's mileage hence to his next place, St. Thomas (Tom√©)
is quite right for this determination. See further, Whipple, P. R. R.
Rep., III., Pt. 3, p. 12, where is given San Fernando de Taos ("de
Taos" in error), a place between Valencia and Tom√©, with a pop. of 800

St. Fernandez, Tex., 696

St. Francis d'Assisi, de Paola, de Sales, 95

St. Francis, monks of, 766

St. Francis r., br. of Gila r., 741

St. Francis r., Elk r., 97

St. Francis, St. Fran√ßois r., Rum r., 35, 95, 96, 313, 314

St. Genevieve, 213, 215, 691

St. Helen's isl., 295

St. Ignace, Ignatius pt., 356

St. Jacomb mt., 638

St. Jeronime, Jeronimie, liv, 660

St. John's cr. and isl., 364

St. John's, Mo., 364

St. John's, N. M., 601, 602, 603, 604, see San Juan

St. John's parish, Eng., 167

St. John's r., 364

St. Joseph l., 351

St. Joseph mission, Tex., 697

St. Lawrence, Minn., 318

St. Lawrence r., lxxii, lxxiii, 277, 302, 326

St. Louis and Hannibal R. R., 8

St. Louis bay, 779

St. Louis chain, 25

St. Louis co., Mo., 1, 2, 357

St. Louis de Potosi, see San Luis de Potos√≠

St. Louis fort, see Fort St. Louis

St. Louis, Keokuk, and N. W. R. R., 5, 7, 8

St. Louis, Mo., xxii, xxix, lxiv, 1, 3, 5, 11, 20, 171, 204, 206, 213,
214, 215, 221, 222, 223, 225, 226, 228, 237, 247, 257, 258, 259, 263,
266, 267, 268, 269, 270, 272, 273, 287, 292, 294, 317, 346, 347, 357,
358, 360, 361, 367, 384, 387, 388, 391, 411, 437, 557, 567, 570, 577,
579, 580, 581, 590, 602, 603, 608, 609, 756, 757, 809, 815, 818, 825,
826, 833, 842, 845, 854

St. Louis Potosi, see San Luis de Potos√≠

St. Louis r., of Lake Superior, 138, 143, 168, 280, 321, 330

St. Louis r., or Illinois r., 3

St. Louis r., or Miss. r., 289

St. Luis Potosi, see San

St. Malo, 296

St. Marco, St. Mark r., 704, 781, see San Marco r.

St. Martin's isl., 297

St. Mary's falls, 30, 330, see Sault Ste. Marie

St. Michael mission, 65

St. Michael's church, Trenton, civ

St. Paul, fort of, 668, see Presidio San Pablo

St. Paul ldg., 75

St. Paul, Minn., cxiii, 72, 74, 75, 82, 83, 92, 130, 182, 201, 348;
names in directory of 1893, 84,461, are supposed to represent a pop.
of 190,262

St. Paul sl., Ia., 41

St. Peter, St. Peter's r., 30, 31, 35, 61, 68, 69, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78,
79, 80, 81, 82, 197, 199, 200, 202, 226, 227, 231, 232, 233, 234, 242,
243, 244, 257, 258, 260, 264, 267, 309, 310, 316, 342, 343, 344, 346,
347, 348, 349, 356, and see St. Pierre r.

St. Philip's, N. M., 616, 752, and see San Felipe

St. Pierre, Capt., St. Pierre de, Jacques le Gardeur, St. Pierre
Repantigni, 80

St. Pierre or St. Pierre's r., 24, 65, 66, 72, 80, 81, 230, 310, 316,
356, 844, and see St. Peter's r.

St. Thereseor r., 707

St. Thomas, Mo., 372

St. Thomas, N. M., 628, see Tom√©

St. Vrain, Marcellus, 446

Sakawes, Sakawis, 101, see Sac and Sauk

Saladoans, 741

Salado r., br. of Gila r., 735, 741

Salado r., br. of Rio Grande in Mex., 691, 776

Salado r., br. of Rio Grande in N. M., 632

Salazar y Larregui, Don J., 644, 646, 647

Salcedo, Don N., xlvii, liv, 411, 655, 656, 657, 658, 659, 661, 662,
663, 664, 667, 675, 683, 689, 690, 702, 771, 810, 811, 812, 813, 814,
815, 817, 818, 820, 821, 822, 823, 825, 828, 830, 832, 837, 839

Salida, Col., 472, 474, 476

Salina, Kas., 403, 404, 405

Salinal, Tex., 690

Salinas mts., 631, 632

Salinas r., or Saline r., Mex., 682, 685

Saline co., Kas., 395, 404, 405

Saline cr., br. of Osage r., 373

Saline cr., or Salt fk. of Ark. r., 552, 553, 554

Saline mts., 632

Saline r., Great, of Kas., 403, 404, 405, 420, 423, 426, 515, 545

Saline r. of Pike, br. of Osage r., 375

Saline r., or Cimarron r., 552, 553, 554

Saline r., or Salt fk. of Ark. r., 552, 553, 554

Saline r., see Salinas r.

Saline r., unidentified, 556

Salle, 779, 780, see La Salle

Sallison cr., 559

Salmera mt., 638

Salmo namaycush, 297

Salt cr., br. of Osage r., 384

Salt cr., br. of Solomon r., 405, 408, 422

Salt cr., or Salt fk. of Ark. r., 552, 553, 554

Saltelo, Don I., 508, 595, 807

Saltelo, see Saltillo, Mex.

Salt fk. of Ark. r., 549, 552, 553, 554, 556, 705

Saltiaux, Saltiers, 30

Saltillo, Mex., 649, 677, 682, 683, 684, 692, 775, 776, 778

Salt mt., 732

Salt r., br. of Gila r., 734, 741

Salt r., br. of Miss. r. in Mo., 7, 211, 290, 355

Salt r., in Kas., 404

Salt r., see Salt fk. of Ark. r.

Saltus Astiaius, De Creux, 1684, is the Sault Ste. Marie

Saltville, Kas., 422

Salt Works, Col., 469

Samalayuca, 649, 650

Samuel, J., 358

San Ander, see New Santander

San Andreas mts., 631, 632, 635, 640

San Antonio camp, Mex., 672

San Antonio cr., 494, 597

San Antonio de Bexar, Tex., liii, 666, 677, 678, 689, 690, 692, 694,
695, 696, 697, 698, 699, 700, 701, 704, 713, 776, 780, 781, 783, 784,
785, 786

San Antonio de Jaral, and cr., 683, 684

San Antonio mt., 597

San Antonio, N. M., 604

San Antonio, N. M., another, 633

San Antonio, Rancho de, on Rio Nasas, 678, 679

San Antonio r., in Tex., 696, 697, 703, 780

San Antonio, Tex., see ditto de Bexar and St. Antonio, Tex.

San Augustin co., Tex., 710

San Augustin del Isleta, mission, see Isleta, N. M.

San Augustin, Fla., settled 1560 or 1565

San Augustin pass, 640

San Bartolom√©, N. M., 616

San Bernardo bay, 781

San Bernilla, N. M., 619

San Blas spr., 672

San Buenaventura de Cochiti, mission, see Cochiti

San Buenaventura, fort of, 770

San Carlos Agency, 735, 736

San Carlos mts., 642

San Carlos res., 748

San Carlos r., in Ariz., 735

San Carlos r., in Col., 451, 452

Sanchez, Tex., 690

San Clemente r., 733

San Clemente tract, N. M., 628

San Cruz, 773, see Santa Cruz, Ariz.

Sand Bank cr. of Lewis and Clark, 17

Sandbank cr. of Pike, 18

Sand-bank pra., 21

Sand bay of Pike, 18

Sand cr., br. of Fountain r., in Col., 452

Sand cr., in Crow Wing co., Minn., 131

Sand cr., in San Luis Valley, Col., 490, 491, 493

Sand cr., near Grand Ca√±on, in Col., 462

Sand Dunes, 491, 492, 493

Sand Hill pass, 484, 490, 491, 492, 506, 650

Sand Hills, Kas., 439

Sand Hills, Mex., 650

Sandia mts., 615, 616, 618, 619, 631

Sandia pueblo, N. M., 618, 619, 752. The documentary evidence adduced
by Meline, pp. 214-220, for "founding" of the place in 1748, does not
apply to the orig. founding of Sandia pueblo, but to arrangements for
Friar J. M. Menchero's herding there a lot of "converts" (Mokis and
others), who he was afraid might get away from him if something
remarkable was not done

San Diaz mts., 616, 631

San Diaz pueblo, 618, 619

San Diego, Cal., 639

San Diego de Jemes, mission, see Jemez

San Diego de Tesuque, mission, see Tesuque

San Diego mt., 639

San Diego, N. M., 639

San Dies, see Sandia pueblo

Sandival, Sandival's hacienda, 619

Sand l., see Sandy l.

San Domingo, Mex., 677

San Domingo, N. M., 613, 614, 615, 616, 617, 752, more often called
Santo Domingo, which see

Sand or Medano cr., 490, 491, 493

Sand Point r., 63, 65

Sand pra., Ia., 28

Sandusky, Ia., 15

Sandy cr., br. of Cimarron r., 439

Sandy cr., in Wis., 34

Sandy l., 102, 120, 133, 134, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141, 142, 145,
153, 155, 168, 170, 173, 176, 178, 191, 241, 279, 280, 281, 285, 316,
320, 321, 327, 338, 346, 347, 350, 351, 356

Sandy l., near St. Paul, is now called L. Como

Sandy Lake rap., 137

Sandy Lake r., 137, 140, 320

Sandy l., unidentified, 173, 174

Sandy pt., 61, 63, 356

Sandy Point cr., 63

Sandy r., see Sandy Lake r.

Sandy r., tributary to Leech l., 153

San Elceario, Elizario, Tex., 643

San Est√©van de Acoma, mission, see Acoma

San Felipe, N. M., 616, 617, 618, 621, 745, 752, on west side of Rio
Grande since 1630

San Felipe, N. M., old, 617

San Fernandez de Taos, N. M., 598

San Fernandez, N. M., 625, 627, 628, and see St. Fernandez, N. M.

San Fernando de Rosas, Mex., 691

Sanford's cr., 371

San Francisco, a church, 765

San Francisco, Cal., 736

San Francisco de los Espa√±oles, see O√±ate

San Francisco del Tigre r., 682

San Francisco de Namb√©, mission, see Nambe

San Francisco mt., Ariz., 730, 731, 741

San Francisco range or divide, Ariz., 741

San Francisco r., 741

San Francisco r., another, in Ariz., is Rio Verde

San Gabriel, N. M., see O√±ate

San Geronimo de Taos, mission of Taos

Sanglante r., 332

Sangonet, Mr., 573

Sangre de Cristo mts., 359, 444, 445, 448, 463, 474, 475, 479, 482,
483, 484, 485, 486, 487, 488, 490, 491, 492, 493, 706, 848

Sangre de Cristo pass, 492, 494

Sang Sue, Sangsue l., 122, 141, 240, 241, 319, 350

Sangue Sue br. or fk., 151

Sangue Sue l., 152

Sanguinet, Chas., jr., 573

San Ildefonso, N. M., 605, or pueblo of Poojoge, existent since 1598

San Jeronimo, Mex., liv, 660

San Jos√©, Col., 596

San Jos√© de Pelayo hacienda, 673

San Josef de la Laguna, mission, see Laguna, N. M.

San Jos√©, mission, Tex., 697, 698

San Jos√©, N. M., various places, 601, 604, 633, 637

San Jos√© r., br. of Rio Puerco, 630, 745

San Jos√© sta., in Chihuahua, 651

San Juan Bautista, Mex., 770

San Juan castle, 722

San Juan [de Ul√∫a], 722

San Juan, first capital of N. M., 756

San Juan, Mex., 677, 680

San Juan mts., 492, 494, 595, 596, 622

San Juan, N. M., 600, 601, 602, 603, 604, 605, 606, 743; mission there
more fully called San Juan de los Caballeros

San Juan range, see ditto mts.

San Juan r., in Mex., 682, 685, 692, 776

San Juan r., N. M. and Utah, 630, 731, 746, may be that indicated on
Pike's map by the legend "Land seen by Father ... Escalante in 1777"

San Juan road, in Col., 469

San Lorenzo de Picuries, mission at Picuris, N. M.

San Lorenzo el Real treaty, 656

San Lorenzo hacienda, 681, 682, 777

San Lorenzo, in Coahuila, 777

San Lorenzo, on Rio Nasas, 677

San Lorenzo r., in Sinaloa, 774

San Luis cr. or r., 482, 491, 496

San Luis lakes, hills, park, 492, 493, 494, 497, 596

San Luis Potos√≠, liii, liv, 719, 720, 722, 723, 724, 725, 775, 800

San Luis r., see do. cr.

San Luis valley, lv, 474, 484, 490, 491, 492, 493, 494, 495, 497, 641

San Marcia, N. M., 634

San Marco or Marcos r., 703, 704, 781

San Marcos or Yaatze, N. M., 18 m. S. S. W. of Santa F√©, pop. 600 in
1680

San Mateo mts., pk., 637

San Miguel bayou, 712

San Miguel, N. M., 640, 737

San Miguel r., br. of Dolores r., 732

San Miguel r., br. of Sonora r., 771, 774

San Miguel r., in Tex., 696

San Miguel's church, in present Santa F√©, N. M., represents the
younger one of two Indian pueblos which occupied that site; this one
had a pop. of 700 in 1630

San Oreille, Oriel, see Sans Oreille

San Pablo, Mex., 668, 770

San Pablo r., 668

San Pascual mt., 633, 634

San Patricio bayou, 712

San Paubla, Mex., 770

San Paubla r., 668, 762

San Pedro de Jaquesua r. of Garces, 1775-76, is the Colorado Chiquito:
see Jasquevilla r.

San Pedro, N. M., 633

San Pedro r., br. of Gila r., 639, 735

San Pedro r., in Chihuahua, 668, 669, 762

San Pedro r., in Tex., 697

San Philip de Queres, 616, and see San Felipe

San Rafael, Col., 596

San Rafael r., 730, 732

San Rosa, see Santa Rosa

Sansamani, 347

Sans Bois cr., 559

San Sebastian, 677, 678

Sans Nerve, a chf., 591

Sans Oreille, Orielle, a chf., 370, 371, 377, 382, 392, 393, 394, 396,
528, 591

Santa Ana, N. M., 745

Santa Barbara, 638

Santa Clara cr., 605

Santa Clara, N. M., 605, on site of Kapoa, a pueblo existent since
1598

Santa Cruz, Ariz., 773

Santa Cruz de Rosales, 668

Santa Cruz, N. M., 605, 606

Santa Cruz r., 734, 735, 773

Santa Eulalia, 764

Santa F√© mts., 606, 736

Santa F√©, Fe, Fee, N. M., xli, xlvii, lii, lvi, 359, 405, 413, 414,
424, 426, 429, 437, 438, 446, 498, 499, 500, 502, 503, 504, 505, 509,
517, 544, 558, 563, 571, 574, 583, 586, 588, 595, 596, 597, 604, 605,
606, 607, 608, 609, 610, 611, 612, 613, 614, 615, 619, 622, 623, 627,
633, 639, 640, 641, 643, 729, 737, 738, 739, 740, 745, 746, 753, 755,
756, 758, 764, 807, 809, 816, 819, 820, 823, 828, 829, 831, 849, 850,
851, see Fort Marcy, O√±ate, Juan de, and San Miguel's church

Santa F√© r. or cr., 606, 607, 613, 614

Santa F√© road, route, trail, old caravan, etc., 401, 424, 425, 429,
433, 446, 517, 518, 519, 520, 521, 522

Santa Maria, Juan de, Franciscan friar at locality of Bernalillo, N.
M., in 1580

Santa Maria l., 650, 776

Santa Maria mts., 730

Santa Maria r., 730, so named by Garces, 1775-76

Santa Mayara, 677

Santa Rita, 670

Santa Rosa, 679, 775, 777, 779

Santa Rosalia, Mex., 669, 670

Santa Teresa r., 707

Santa Teresa, Tex., 643

Santego, Santiago r., 720

Santo Domingo, audience of, 718

Santo Domingo, N. M., 615, 745. Before O√±ate, 1598, Santo Domingo was
on Arroyo de Galisteo, more than 1 m. E. of present Wallace; was
partly washed out by a freshet; inhabitants moved further W. and built
another pueblo, similarly destroyed. Next built on Rio Grande, and
likewise wiped out. Present town has had three such disasters in 200
years, last in 1886, when its churches were demolished. (F. W. Hodge,
in letter, 1895.)

San Tomas, N. M., 628

Santo Tomas de Abiquiu, mission, see Abiquiu

San Xavier del Bac, 735. _Bac_ is a corruption of Piman word _bat-ki_,
"old house"

San Xavier r., 730, 732

Sapah Watpa, 52

sapin, 132, 318, 321

Sappah r., 52

Sappho, 67

sap pine, 132, 318, 320, 321

Saque, Saques, 303, 346, 347, see Sac Inds. and Sauk

Sarah Ann isl., 4

Saramende, Don P. R., 651

Saskashawan, Saskatchewan r., 256, 278

Sassassaouacotton, 101

Sassicy-Woenne rap., 144

Satterfield, Mo., 12

Satterfield's cr., 12

Sauceda, Mex., 684

Saucier, Fran√ßois, 3, 214

Saucier, French engineer, 531

Saucillo, Mex., 668, 669

Sauerwein's woodyard, 18

Sauk raps., 100, 101, 193, 315

Sauk, Saukee Inds., 101, 338, 339, 341, 346, 347, see Sac Inds., and
Sacs and Foxes

Sauk, Saukes r., 101, 315, 356

Sault de St. Antoine, 91

Sault de Ste. Marie, 30

Sault du Gaston, 30

Saulteurs, Saulteux, 30

Sault Ste. Marie, 330, 349

Sauteaux Inds., 297, 299, 303, 306

Sauteaux, r., br. of Minnesota r., 316

Sauteaux, Sauteur r., br. of Miss. r., 60, 279, 305, 306, 307, 355

Sauteurs, 30, 31, 346, 347

Sautiaux r., 60

Sautiers, 30

Saut St. Antoine, 91

Sauz, Mex., 654

Savanna, Ill., 27

Savanna isl., 27

savanna partridge, 175

Savanna r., br. of Miss. r., 138

Savanna, Savannah r., feeder of Sandy l., 138, 321, 330, and see West
do.

Savanna, Savannah r., see East do.

Savary, a writer, 621

Saverton, Mo., 8

Savinal, N. M., 629

Sawatch range, 469, 471, 479, 483, 492

Sawk, Sawkee, 101, 346, 347, see Sauk

Saw-mill cr., 429

Sawyer co., Wis., 309

Sawyer r., 289

sawyers, 12

Say and Calhoun, 92

Sayers, John, 139, 168

Say, Thos., 41, 330

Scalops aquaticus, 97

scalp, scalp incident, scalping, xcvii, xcviii

Scalp l., 317

Scammon, E. P., 334

Scandia, Republic co., Kas., 411, is given by N. L. Prentis as
"traditional" site of Pike's Pawnee village, but I doubt it; seems
decidedly too far S. E.

Schell City, Mo., 385

Schenectady barges, 223

Schiras, see Shiras

Schoolcraft co., Mich., 296

Schoolcraft, H. R., 36, 63, 85, 92, 101, 127, 128, 129, 143, 147, 148,
150, 153, 156, 157, 158, 159, 161, 162, 163, 169, 170, 176, 199, 309,
314, 317, 324, 326, 327, 328, 329, 330, 331, 335, 338

Schoolcraft isl., 166, 167, 332

Schoolcraft r., 162, 334

Schwanders, Col., 469

Schweidnitz, lxvi

Scioux, see Sioux

Scipio r., 9

Scirpus lacustris, 325

scorpions, 763

Scotland, xlv

Scotland co., Mo., 12

Scott, Capt. John, lxxxvi

Scott, Capt. M., 37, 38, 41

Scott co., Ia., 24, 25, 26, 293

Scott, Gen. W., lv, 45, 84

Scott, Lieut. John, lxxxvi

Scott pt., 296

Scott purchase, 45

Scott's ldg., 7

Scourge, a ship, lxxxiii

Scranton, Kas., 520

Scribner's Sons, xlviii

Scrub Oak r., 127

Seaman's isl., 41

Sea of the North, 310

Sea People, 31

Search, Mo., 377

Search's isl., 2

Searles, Mr., 164

Searles, O. O., 123

Sea, Sgt., 712

Seaton, see Gales and

Sebastian co., Ark., 559

Second cr. of Pike, 105, 123

Second Dragoon cr., 520

Second fk. of Ark. r., 445, 463

Second raps. of Nicollet, 100

Second r., 324

Second Saline r., 545

Seco r., 696

Secretary of State, xlii

Secretary of the Navy, xcviii, ci

Secretary of War, xx, xxi, xxix, l, li, lvii, lx, lxi, lxiii, lxiv,
lxv, lxvi, lxvii, lxxiii, lxxix, xcvii, ci, 564, 567, 575, 585, 841,
842, 845, 851, 853, 855

Sedalia, Warsaw, and Southern R. R., 379

Sedgwick, Capt. T., xxvi, xxvii

Sedgwick co., Kas., 548

Seemunah, 745

Seguna, 629, see Laguna, N. M.

Seignelay, Marquis de, 3, 70, 312

Seignelay r., 3

Selden ca√±on, 639

Selkirk, Lord, 118

Selkirkshire, xlv

Sellers sta., N. M., 638

Sel r., 7, 355

Seltzer spr., 452

Semerone r., 552, 553, 554

Senate, U. S., 231, 236, 238

Senora, see Sonora

Septuagint, 182

Sequimas, 630, see Cequimas

Servilleta, Col., 596, 598

Sesabagomag l. and r., 135, 136

Seseetwawns, 313

Seven Cities of Cibola, 630, 742

Seven Lakes, 456

Seven Mile cr., 470

Seventh rap. of Nicollet, 131

Severn r., lxxv

Sevier l. and r., 732, 733, 734

Sevilleta, Sibilleta of Pike, was a Piro Indian village, so named by
O√±ate in 1598 from fancied resemblance to Seville in Spain

Seymour, S., 41

Sezei, see Lisa

Shackleford co., Tex., 706

Shaff's cr., 429

Shahkpay, Shahkpaydan, 88

Shakea, 69, 348

Shakeska, 349

Shakopee, Minn., 88, 342

Shakpa, 88, 348

Shannon, a ship, cv

Shannon co., Mo., cx

Sharpsdale, Col., 492

Shawanese, 526, 591

Shawanoe, 180, 186, 187, 189, 193, 347

Shawanoe hunter, 780

Shaw cr., 385

Shaw, G. W., 334

Shawinukumag cr., 167

Shaw, Maj. Gen., xcii

Shawnee, Shawnee Agency, Kas., 519

Shawonese, 191, see Shawanese

Sheaffe, R. H., lxxviii, lxxxviii, xc, xci, xcii, xcv, xcvi, xcvii, c,
cii

Shea, J. G., 5, 23, 65, 71, 91, 95, 312

sheep, wild, 438

Shell Lake, Minn., 318

Shell r., 669

Shell Rock ca√±on, 443

Shell Rock cr., 22

Shelton's isl., 365

Shem, a mythical person, 56

Shenga Wassa, 551, 591

Shenoma, 744

Shenouskar, 347

Shepherd, Ill., 8

Shepherd r., 365

Shepherd's cr., 365

Sherburne co., Minn., 96, 97

Sherlock, Kas., 440

Shiba l., 331

Shichoamavi, 744

Shienne r., 349

Shields' br., 2

Shikagua cr., 18

Shingle cr., 94

Shinumo, 744

Shipauliwisi, 744

Shipley, Mo., 370

Shiras, Lieut. P., xxvi, xxvii

Shiuano is Zu√±ians' name of their country

Shiwina, 742

Shoemaker, Capt. P., xxvi, xxvii, xxix

Shokauk cr. or r., 18

Shokokon sl., 18, 19

Shongapavi, 744

Shooter, a chf., is Wacouta

Shooters at Leaves, 349

Shoshonean, 731, 735, 743, 744, 746

Shoshones, 341

Shouchoir pt., 296

Shumepovi, Shumopavi, 744, is Pike's Songoapt

Shupaulovi, 744

Shute de la Roche Peinture, 123, 316

Shute de St. Antoine, 356

Sia, 604, 745

Sibilant l., named by Brower from its shape of the sibilant letter S

Sibilleta, N. M., 628, 632, 739, see Sevilleta

Sibley, Dr., 77, 559, 705, 706, 708, 709, 711, 713, 714, 785, 835

Sibley, Gen. H. H., 40, 76, 86, 204, 239, 333

Sibley l., 129

Sibley, Mo., 520

Sibley, Mr., U. S. Commissioner, 518

Sibola, 742

Sichumovi, 744

Siegfried cr., 166, named by Brower for A. H. Siegfried

Sienega, Sieneguilla, see under C

Sierra Blanca, Col., 448, 483, 493

Sierra Blanca, N. M., 631

Sierra Christopher, 632, 633, 639

Sierra co., Cal., cx

Sierra co., N. M., 637, 638

Sierra de el Sacramento, 631

Sierra de Guadalupe, 631

Sierra de la Cola, 640

Sierra de las Mimbres, 674

Sierra de los Caballos, 635, 637, 638

Sierra de los Cosninas, 731

Sierra de los Organos, 631

Sierra de Tampanagos, 738

Sierra la Sal, 732

Sierra Madre, 733, 761, 762, 764

Sierra Magdalena, 632

Sierra Magillez, 632

Sierra Obscura, Oscura, 631, 632

Sierra Verde, 733

siesta, 660

Sieur Dacan, d'Acau, d'Accault, d'Ako, 64

Signal butte, 744

Silla, 745

Silver Cliff, Col., 482, 483, 484

Silver cr., Col., 483

Silver cr., Kas., 401

Silver cr., Minn., 98, 99

Silver Creek Siding, Minn., 99

silver mines, 759, 760, 761

Simcoe, Gov. J. G., lxxvi, lxxvii

Simcoe l., lxxv

Simpson, Kas., 408

Simpson, Lieut. J. H., 598, 615, 619, 630, 645

Sinaloa, city, 774

Sinaloa r., 774

Sinaloa, State, 719, 726, 739, 740, 759, 770, 773, 774, 775

Sinecu pueblo, 643

Singonki-sibi, 143

Singuoako r., 132

Sinipee, Sinipi, Sinope, Ia., 32

Sinsinawa, Sinsinaway, Sinsinniwa, Sissinaway cr. or r., 28, 32

Siouan, 345, 412, 559

Sioux, passim throughout Pt. 1, esp. 30, 31, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 50,
82, 91, 341, 342, 343, 344, 345, 346, 347, 348, 349, 352, 353, 354,
passim in Pt. 2, 744, 746, see also following

Sioux-Chippewa boundary, 72, 101

Sioux councils, 83, 84, 207

Sioux l., 313

Sioux of the Prairie, 81

Sioux outbreak of 1862, 85

Sioux, Pike's speech to, 46

Sioux r., 95, 313

Sioux r. of Beltrami, 97

Sioux sl., 41

Sioux treaty, Pike's, 227, 231, 233, 234, 235, 236, 237, 238, 239

Sioux village, old, 348

Sipans, 746, see Lipans

Sirens, The, 126

Sisibakwet l., 147

Sisitoans, Sisitonwans, Sissetons, Sissitons, 120, 208, 313, 343, 345,
346, 347, 348, 349

Sister bluffs, 297

Sitgreaves, Capt. L., 645

Sivola is Cibola

Six, a chf., 88, 348

Six Mile cr., Col., 462

Six Mile cr., Ill., 6

Six Mile cr., Kas., 401

Sixth rap. of Nicollet, 126

Sketch of Arkansas journey, 845 to 854

Skidis, 412

Skin cr., 559

Skunk r., 18

slack-rope, 694

Slate cr., br. of Ark. r., 549

Slate or Martin's cr., 465

Slater's ferry, 96

Slave l., 278

Slave r., 278, 376

Sleepy-eye, 99

Slim chute and isl., 6

Small, C. H., preface, 453, 454

smallpox, 170, 171

Smallpox cr., 28, 29

Small pra. of Pike, 12

Small rap. of Nicollet, 142

Small Saline r., 545

Smith, Geo., 182

Smith, J. Calvin, 554

Smith, Lieut. or Gen. Thos. A., 715, 827

Smith, Luther R., preface

Smith, Pvt. Pat., 1, 359, 360, 432, 481, 482, 490, 506, 509, 510, 612,
845, 854, 855

Smith's Canada, lxxix

Smith's chain, 25

Smithsonian Institution, xx

Smith, W. F., 645

Smoking mt., 723

Smoky Hill buttes, 404

Smoky Hill fk. or r., 395, 403, 404, 405, 408, 410, 419, 420, 423,
424, 426, 473, 515, 541, 545, 584

Smoky Hill route, 425, 426, 429

Snag r., 289

Snake cr., 556

Snake Inds., 341, 743

Snake r., br. of Rio Grande, 494

Snake r., br. of St. Croix r., 95

Snelling, Col. J., 83, 330

Snelling, W. J., 84, 330

Snibar, Sniabar, 6

snicarty, 6, 7, 8, 11, 41, 42, 51

Snively, Col., 439

Snow mts. of Pike, 483

snowshoes, lxix

Sny carte, Sny levee, 6

Sny Magill, 34

Soaking mt., 54

Soap cr., 375

Sobaipuri, 735

Socorro co., N. M., 628, 637

Socorro grant, 633

Socorro mts., 632

Socorro, N. M., 632, 633, old pueblo destroyed 1681, and new town
founded 1817

Socorro, Tex., 643

Soda Springs, Col., 483

soft-shelled turtles, 539

Soldat de Chien, 591

Soldier of the Oak, a chf., 541

Soldier's cr., 520

Soldier's Dog, a chf., 591

Solferino, Ia., 15

Solomon r., 403, 404, 405, 408, 420, 421

Sombrerito, Mex., 674

Son, and Holy Ghost r., see Father, etc.

Songaskitons, Songasquitons, 312, 313

Songoapt, 731, 743, is Shumopavi

Songukumigor, 134

Son in Law, a chf., 591

Son of Waters, 289

Sonora, city, 772

Sonora, Ill., 15

Sonora, military force of, 772, 773

Sonora r., 771, 773

Sonora, Senora, State, 649, 651, 653, 678, 719, 726, 727, 735, 739,
740, 756, 759, 761, 766, 769, 770, 771, 772, 773, 774, 775

Soone, 742

Sossabegoma-sibi of Beltrami is Sesabagomag r.

Soters, 30

Soulard, A. P., 9, 226

Souris r., 168

South America, 791, 804

South Arkansaw r., 472, 474

South Big cr., 399

South br. or fk. of Miss. r., or Leech Lake br., 151

South Cheyenne cr., 452

South Coon cr., 550

Southern Caddoan, 714

Southern California, 776

Southern California R. R., 731

Southern Ute res., 748

South Fabius r., 10

South fk. of Ark. r., 482

South fk. of Miss. r., or Plantagenian

Source, 162, 331

South Fritz isl., 7

South Kansas R. R., 519

South mts. of Pike, or Wet mts., 462

South Oil cr., 465

South park, Col., xlviii, 452, 463, 464, 465, 466, 467, 468, 469, 477,
480, 642, 757

South Park, Kas., 519

South Park, Minn., 74

South Platte r., 451, 464, 465, 466, 467, 468, 473, 524, 642, 729, 847

South Point isl., 363

South Point, Mo., 363

South Pueblo, Col., 452, 453

South Sea, 720, 721, 727

South Two Rivers, Mo., 10

Soutors, 30

Spain, 213, 501, 502, passim in Pts. 2 and 3, as 727, 808, 810, 811,
821, 823, 850, see New Spain, Spaniards, Spanish

Spalding, D., 358

Spaniards, 227, 229, 254, passim in Pt. 2, and throughout Pt. 3

Spanish America, 802

Spanish-American diplomacy, 803

Spanish bayonet, 776

Spanish beggary, 791

Spanish cavalry, 795

Spanish chain on Miss. r., 15

Spanish costumes, 788

Spanish courts-martial, 799

Spanish ecclesiasticism, 801

Spanish games, 789

Spanish influence over Pawnees, 535, 537, 543, 544

Spanish Inds., 535, 538, and see pueblos in general

Spanish insurrection, 804

Spanish l., 713

Spanish manufactures, 791

Spanish military force, see Spanish troops

Spanish peaks, 448

Spanish politics, 802

Spanish principles of military authority, 800

Spanish relations to the U. S., 805

Spanish revenues, 791, 792

Spanish spies, 503

Spanish troops, 794, 795, 796, 797

Sparks, Capt. R., 412, 558, 710

Sparks, Jared, xix, lxvi

Sparks, Pvt. John, xlvi, 1, 12, 54, 56, 108, 110, 113, 114, 115, 119,
179, 245, 246, 359, 368, 373, 377, 380, 420, 425, 432, 461, 462, 472,
482, 485, 486, 487, 490, 505, 506, 509, 510, 845, 854, 855

Spatularia spatula, 5

Spearville, Kas., 434

speeches, Chippewa chfs. to Pike, 259

speeches, Inds. to Pike, 266, 267, 268

speeches, Pike to Sioux, 46, 226

speech, Pike to Puants, 265

speech, Pike to Sauteaux, 254

Spencer's cr. and isl., 25

Spikebuck, Col., 476

Spirit hill, 53

Spirit l., Devil's l., N. Dak., 314

Spirit l., Mille Lacs l., Minn., 314

Spirit l., small one, Minn., 314

Split Hand r., 143

Spofford, A. R., preface, xxxiv

spoon-billed cat, 5

Spring butte, 744

Spring cr., br. of Cannon r., 70

Spring cr., br. of Grape cr., 485

Spring cr., br. of Miss. r., 18

Spring cr., br. of Mulberry cr., 404

Spring Lake sl., 6

Spring rap., 98

Spring Ridge, Spring Ridge cr., 165, so named by Brower

Spring runs, several, 465

spruce, 101, 102

Spruce cr., 18

spruce partridge, 175

Spunk brook or r., 103, 184

Squaw cr., 472, 474

Squaw isl., 4

Stabber, a chf., 361

Stag cr., 403, 404

Stag isl., 5

Staked plains, 707

stampede, 783

Standing Buffalo, a chf., 349

Standing Cedars, 72, 101

Standing Elk or Moose, a chf., 87, 240

Standing Rock r., 67

Starca, Stasca, in Schoolcraft, 1855, stand for Itasca

Stars and Stripes up, c

State Dept., 239

State papers, 840

State Park, Itascan, Minn., 164, 329

States, The, where left, 518, 519

Statistical Abstract, 589, 590, 591

Statutes at Large, 11

Stavely, J. W., 9

Stearns co., Minn., 99, 100, 102

Stephens l., 147, 148

Stephensonville, Ill., 24

Steuben, Baron F. W. A. H. F. von, lxvi, lxviii

Steuben, Steubenville, lxvi

Stevenson, Col. Jas., 742

Stinkards, Stinkers, 31, 39

Stinkers' bay, 298

Stinkers' l., 300

Stinking cr., 13

Stinking l., 340

Stinking rap., 356

Stirling, Capt., 214

Stirling isl., 5

Stirling, Mo., 5

stockade on Conejos r., 495, 496, 497

stockade on Swan r., 105, 106, 107

Stockbridge and Brotherton, 300

Stockholm, Minn., 62, 63

Stoddard co., Mo., cxi

Stoddard cr., 49

Stoddard, Minn., 49

Stone of Fruit, a chf., 347

Stone Sioux, 348, 354

Stoney, see Stony

Stony brook or cr. enters Miss. r. in Stearns co., Minn., 1 m. S. of
town line 126-27

Stony cr., in La., 713

Stony or Stoney r., 24, 32, 210, 293, 355

Stony Point, Sac village, 210

Stoute, Pvt. F., 1, 359, 432, 476, 482, 490, 510, 845, 854, 855

Strawberry isl., 298

Strawberry r., 306

Strong Ground, a chf., 134

Strong, Lt.-Col. D., xxvi, xxvii

Strong, Maj. E., 715

Stuben, see Steuben

Stump l., 58

Sturgeon bay, 297, 298

Sturgeon l., 73

Stygian caverns, 201

Sucre, a chf., 259, 260, 347, 351

Sues, 346, 347, see Sioux

Sugar cr., in Ia., 16, 17

Sugar cr., in Mo., 372

Sugar cr., in Wis., 42

Sugar-loaf hill, 55

sugar maple, 157

Sugar pt., 156, 157

suicide, 66

Suicide cr., 556

Suinyi, 630, 742

Suisinawa cr., 32

Sully, Duc de, 182

Sulphur spr., 468

Sumbraretto, 674

Sumner, Col. E. V., 425

Sumner co., Kas., 549

Sunday Cone, 638

Sune, 742

Sun isl., 103

sun-temples, 741

Suppai, Supai, forms of Havasupai

Susma, 650

Sussitongs, 120, 121, 197, 258, 263, 267, 343, 344, 345, 346, 347

Suter, Maj. C. R., 295, 299

Suycartee sl., 6

Swallows, Col., 460

Swallow's Nest, 383

Swamp l., 131, 177

Swan l., 321

Swan, Maj. Wm., lxxx, lxxxi

Swan r., Aitkin co., Minn., 143, 321, 356

Swan r., Morrison co., Minn., 17, 99, 101, 104, 106, 122, 132, 178,
179, 186, 193, 315, 316, 318

Swan r. of Allen, by error, 124

Swan River P. O., Minn., 123

Swan River tp., Minn., 103, 104, 122

Swan sl., 6

Sweden isl., 4

Sweet, a chf., 156, 157, 168, 172, 260, 347

Sweetland cr., 23

Sweetwater cr., 470

Swift cr., 483

Swift, Dean, 204

Swift sl., 6

Switzerland, 454

Switzerland of America, 472

Switzler's cr., 518, 520

Sycamore chain, 25

syenite, 73

Sylvain, L. P., preface, xcii, xcv

Sylvan isl., 25

Sylvan Lake sta., Minn., 129

syn[oe]cias, 741

syphilization, 736

Syracuse, Kas., 441


T

Tabasco, 718, 722

Tabeau creeks, see Big and Little

Tachies, Tachus, 709

Tacokoquipesceni, 86

Tacubaya, 803

Tahama, Tahamie, 87, 88, 347

Tahkookeepayshne, 86

Tahma cr., 23

Tahtawkahmahnee, 88

Tahuglauk, 68

Takopepeshene, 86, 348

Talahsee cr., 477

Talangamene, 69, 347

talc, 729

Taliaferro l., 131

Taliaferro, Maj. L., 83, 84, 89, 330 333

Tallahassa, Tallahassee cr., 477

Tamahaw, 87

Tamalisieu, 288

tamarac, 319

Tamaulipas, 692, 722, 724, 725, 775, 776

Tamaya, 745

Tammahhaw, 87

Tammany, 411

Tampa, Kas., 402, 403

Tampanagos l., 738

Tampico, 724

Tanakaways, 705

Tancards, 705, 706, 785

Tandy, D. C., 358

Tandy, R. E., 358

Tankahuas, Tanks, 705

Tanner, H. S., 553, 554

Ta√±oan pueblos, 598, 601, 604, 605, 615, 619, 643, 737, 742, 743, 744,
752

Tanos, 653

Taoapa, 88, 348

Taos co., N. M., 598

Taos cr., 598

Taoses mt., 598

Taos, N. M., xlvii, 438, 446, 453, 598, 606, 607, 618, 739, 745, 758,
discovered 1541 by Barrionuevo of Coronado's army

Taos r., 598

Taos valley, 492

Taoyatidoota, 85

Tapage, 412

Tapatui, 288

Tapoueri Inds., 48

Taracone Apaches, see Faraone

Tarehem, 591

Target l., 50

tariff of prices in exchange, 283

Tascodiac l., 160

Tass√©, 194

Tatamane, Tatamene, 203, 347

Tatanga, _i. e._, Buffalo Sioux, named first in Radisson's Journal,
pub. by Prince Society of Boston

Tatangamani, 69, 342

Tatangashatah, 347

Tatankanaje, 349

Tatanka Yuteshane, 349

Tate cr., 400

tattoo, 72

Tatunkamene, 69

Taucos is found for Tewa

Tau-formed peninsula, 153

Taui is Taos

Tavern cr., 363, 369

Tavern, The, 363

Tawangaha, 591

Tawanima, 559

Taxidea americana, 96, 432

Taxus, 709

Taylor co., Wis., 52

Taylor isl., 8

Taylor, Z., 17, 45, 725

Tcawi, 412

Tchahtanwahkoowahmane, Tchaypehamonee, 85

Tchikun, 748

Tchishi, 748

Teabo creeks, see Big and Little

Teakiki r., 3

Tears, Lake of, 65

Tebo creeks, see Big and Little

Tebo r., br. of Mo. r., 379

Tecumseh st., Toronto, lxxviii

Teepeeota pt., 59, 60

Tegatha was a name of Taos

Teguan, 744

Teissier, 779

Tell, Wm., 289

Tempe, Ariz., 741

Teneriffe, Peak of, 461

Ten Mile cr., br. of Blue r., 471

Ten Mile cr., br. of Bull cr., 519

Ten Mile cr., br. of Oil cr., 465

Tennai, 746

Tennessee, liii, liv, cxi, 691, 694

Tennessee fk. of Ark. r., 471

Tennessee r., 656

Tepeedotah, Tepeeota pt., 59, 60

tequesquite, 654

Terenate, 772

Terre Beau, 379

Tesugue, Tesuque, 605, 606, 625

Tetankatane, 348

Tetans or Tetaus, 407, 412, 413, 441, 449, 459, 526, 535, 536, 537,
563, 566, 570, 571, 574, 587, 588, 590, 591, 592, 600, 620, 744, 745,
756, 778

T√™te du Mort, des Morts cr., 28

Tetilla pk., 614

Tetoans, 349

Tetobasi, 528, 591

Tetons, 343, 346, 347

Tewa, Tewan, 744

Texan expedition of 1841, 739, 765

Texas, xxxii, lii, liii, 436, 559, 560, 640, 641, 642, 643, 644, 645,
661, 678, continuously from 690 to 711, 719, 724, 725, 726, 727, 746,
775, 777, 778, 779, and to 786

Texas cr., in Col., 475, 483

Texas Creek sta., Col., 475

Texican, 709

Texus, lii

Teyde, Pico de, 461

Tharp, Sgt., 712

Theakiki r., 3

Thequaio l., 738

Thequao, A. de, 738

Thermopyl√¶, 571

Thermopyl√¶ of Texas, 698

Thieves' isl., 21

Thinthonhas, 313

Third fk. of Ark. r., 451, 463

Third rap. of Nicollet, 101

Third r., 324

Third River bay, 324

Thirty-nine Mile mt., 464, 465

Thomas, a chf., 180, 181, 184, 187, 189, 196

Thomason's, Ill., 4

Thomomys talpoides, 97

Thompson, a writer, lxxix

Thompson, David, 138, 139, 159, 167, 168, 278

Thompson gulch, 471

Thompson, Ill., 27

Thompson isl., 18

Thompson, Prof. A. H., preface

Thompson, R. F., preface, 11, 553

Thornberry r., 324

Thousand isls., 99, 100, 120, 192, 193

Thousand-lakes l., 312, 313

Three Brothers, 8

Three Rivers, Canada, 296

Three Rivers mt., Mex., 685

Three Rivers pass, 685

Three Rocks sta., N. M., 597

Thundering rap., 144

Thunder l., 155

Thunder mt. is the high Zu√±i mesa called Toyoalana

Thurman cr., 400

Thwaites, R. G., preface

Tiburon isl., 771

Ticorilla is Buschmann's form of Jicarilla

Tierra Amarilla, 597

Tierra Blanca, 650

Tierra Caliente, 722

Tierra Fria, 722

Tiger, Tigre r., 682, 725

Tijeras ca√±on, 619

Tijera, Tijeras cr., 619, 626

Tilden's isl., 6

Tilia americana, 315

Tillier, Mr., 567

Timbered Hill, 385, said to be named for one Henri de Tiembre, also
called Brushy Mound

Timpa, Timpas cr., 446, 447

Timpanagos l., 733, 738

Tintonbas, Tintonhas, Tintons, 313

Tioscat√©, 77

Tipiota, 59

Tipisagi, 36

Tippet's ldg., 45, 48

Tippin and Streeper, 649

Titoan, Titongs, Titonwans, 343, 344, 345, 346, 347

Tkanawe, see Kyanawe

Tlahualila l., 673

Tlascala, 718, 721, 722

Toas, see Taos

Todd co., Minn., 128

Todos Santos, 706

toise, 540

Toluca, 721

Tomahawk cr., 519

Tomaw, 180, 347, and see Carron

Tomb r., 71

Tom√© Grant, 629

Tom√© hill, 628

Tom√©, N. M., 628

Tom√© ranches, 628

Tomichi r., 471

Tompkins ldg., 7

Tongue pt., 324

Tonkawa, Tonkawan, 705, 706

Tonnere, Tonnerre Rouge, 208, 267, 270, 343, 344, 347

Tonnerre qui Sonne, 347

Tons, see Taos

Tonti, H. de, 560, 714

Tonti, L., 560

Tontine insurance, 560

Tonto Apaches, 748

Tonto basin, 748

Tonty, H. de, 560

Tonuco sta., N. M., 639

Toolsboro, Ia., 23

Topeka Commonwealth, xlvii

Topeka, Kas., xlvii

Topeka, Minn., 125, 179

Topeka, Saline, and Western R. R., 521

Torch r., 306

Toronto bay, lxxv, lxxvii

Toronto l., lxxv

Toronto, Ont., lxxiv, lxxv, lxxvi, lxxvii, 168, 278

Torreon, Mex., 677, 679

Tortugas, N. M., 640

Totonteac, 744

Touche de la cote Bucanieus, 423

touchwood, 103

Tourmansara, 391

Tous, see Taos

Tousac, 621, 625. Of the alternatives given in the text, 625, it seems
most probable we are to take for Pike's Tousac the next village below
Atrisco, _i. e._, Pajarito, and that Atrisco was the place where he
met Dr. Robinson

Towa for Iowa in Hugh Murray, 1829

Towaiotadootah, 85

Tower, The, 679

Toyac r., 710, 782, 784, see Atoyac and under Rio

Toyoalana, Zu√±ian name of Thunder mt.

Trachyte, Trackite Knob, 465

Tracy l., 310

trade, etc., 739, 766, 791

Trainer, alias Henderson, 693

Tramha, Trampas, Tranpa, 606

transcontinental route, 523, 731, 732

Trappist monks and r., 13

Traverse of Lake Pepin, 61, 65

Travers, Traverse l., on Miss. r., 161

Travers, Traverse l., on Red r., 118, 349

treaty, Mr. Jay's, 247

Treaty of Fontainebleau, 213, 657

Treaty of Paris, 213, 657

Treaty of Prairie du Chien, 36

Treaty with Sacs and Foxes, 11

Treaty with Sioux, Pike's, 231, 239

Trego co., Kas., 404

Trejos, N. M., 629

Trempealeau co., Wis., 52, 53

Trempealeau r., 54, 56, 58, 305, 307

Trempealeau, Wis., 52, 53, 55

Trenton, N. J., xx, lix, civ

Trenton, Wis., 70

Tres Piedras, N. M., 597

Tres Rios, Monte de los, 685

Trevi√±o, Mex., 685

Trimbelle r., 73

Trinchera cr., 494, 497, 507

Trinchera mt., 445

Trinidad r., 707, 708

Trinidad, Tex., 708

Trinity r., 696, 703, 706, 707, 708, 710, 779, 781, 782, 784, 786

Trinity, Tex., 708

Trinity, The, 707

Trionyx ferox, 539

Triplet lakes, near Morrison l. and Whipple l., named by Brower

Trompledo, Schlc., 1855, for Trempealeau

trout, 297

Trout cr., Col., 469, 471

Trout cr., Itasca co., Minn., 143

Trout Creek pass, 469, 847

Trout Creek Pass hills, 469

Trout cr., Winona co., Minn., 53

Trout cr., Wis., 41

Trout r., 143

Truchas, Truches mt. or pk., 606, 736

Trudeau, Gov. Z., 358

Trujillo, 659

Trumbull, Jonathan, 711

Truro, Col., 465

Truxillo, 659, 839

Trying to Walk is E. trans. of name of Nicollet's guide Gaygwedosay,
1836, who lately died at supposed age of 115 years; portrait
published, 1895, by Brower

Tsea, 745

Tshiquite, 737

Tsia, 745

Tsuga canadensis, 320

Tubac, Ariz., 771, 773, was an Indian mission about 1699

Tubson, 773

Tucayan, 743, 744

Tucson, Ariz., 639, 734, 773. The orig. Piman rancheria, pop. 331 in
1760-67, became site of a Spanish presidio about 1772, and actual
settlement by Spaniards was in 1776. The contention of great antiquity
of Tucson as a white settlement is thus a popular myth

Tuerto cr., 616

Tulenos, 770

Tulip, see La Tulip

Tully, 12

Tully isl., 12

Tumbling rock, 56

Tuque cr., 364

Turk, see Coronado

Turkey cr., br. of Ark. r., in Col., 452, 454, 455, 456, 457, 459, 460

Turkey cr., br. of Ark. r. in Okla., 550

Turkey cr., br. of Huerfano r., 491

Turkey cr., br. of Kansas r., 519

Turkey cr., br. of Little Ark. r., in Kas., 518, 522

Turkey cr., br. of Neosho r., 399

Turkey cr., br. of Osage r., 377, 378

Turkey cr., br. of Smoky Hill r., 403

Turkey isl., 381

Turkey r., 32, 34, 293, 294, 339, 355

Turkey's foot, 22, 292

Turkish ladies, 790

Turnbull, Peter, opened a road in Itasca basin, 1882

Turnbull pt., 167, named by Brower for Peter Turnbull, first white
resident at L. Itasca

Turner, Capt. E. D., xxvii, 725

Turner's, Turner's isl., 5

Turning Point, 297

Turn isl., 356

Turn, The, 356

Turtle brook is Turtle r. near Turtle l., Minn., D. Thompson, 1798

Turtle isl., 8

Turtle l., 161, 332

Turtle mt., 255, 278

Turtle Portage r., 324

Turtle r., 157, 158, 159, 167, 168, 263, 328

Turtle River lakes, 157, 158

turtles, 539

Tusayan, 742

Tuscumbia, Mo., 373

Tuttasuggy, 371, 386, 389, 391, 540, 550, 552, 591

Tuzan, 744

Twin Creek pass, 465

Twin isls., 18

Twin lakes, Col., 471, 472

Twin lakes, Minn., 166, so named by Brower

Twin Lakes sta., Col., 471

Twin r., 103

Two Branch, Ill., 4

Two Branch isl., 4

Two Butte cr., 442, 443

Two Creek pass, 465

Two Lakes l., 317

Two Mountains l., 351

Two Rivers Baptist Association, 10

Two Rivers brook, 103

Two Rivers, Minn., 103, 105, 110, see Little

Two Rivers, Mo., 10, 11, see North and South

Two Rivers tp., Minn., 103

Tympanuchus americanus, 98

Tyrrell, J. B., 168, 278

Tyson's cr., 17

Tzia, 745

Tziguma, old pueblo near Cienega, N. M., pop. under 1000, abandoned
after revolt of 1680


U

Ugarte, Capt., 698

Ukaqpa, 559

Ulloa, A. d', 214

Ulloa, Count, 357

Ulloa, Francisco de, was first in Gulf of California in 1539

Ultimate Reservoir Bowl, see Greater and Lesser do.

Ultima Thule, 457

Ulua, see Ulloa

Ulysses, Kas., 439

Umas, 736, see Yuma Inds.

Unadilla, N. Y., 405

Una Vida, 630

Uncle Sam, 711

Undine region, 68

Union Avenue, Pueblo, Col., 453, 454

Union gulch, Col., 471

Unionists, 560

Union Jack down, c

Union Pacific R. R., 404, 471

United Empire Loyalists, lxxvi

United States, 231, 232, 236, 237, 238, 240, 241, 247, 248, 249, 250,
262, 263, 265, 266, 270, 279, 280, 727, 808, 810, 811, 812, 813, 814,
816, 817, 818, 821, 822, 823, 825, 837, 838, 840, 842, 843, 844, 846,
850, 851, 853, 854

United States and Mexican Boundary, 644, 645, 646, 647, 691, 692

United States and New Spain Boundary, 656

United States Geological Survey, 369, 370, 491

United States mt., 606

United States Northern Boundary, 279

up√©kan is Chip. name of the portage-strap in Wilson's Dict., 1874; see
p. 136

Upham sta., N. M., 636

Upper Canada, xxiii, lxxvi, lxxxviii, cii

Upper ca√±on of S. Platte r., 466

Upper chain, 15

Upper chain of Rock r., 25

Upper Cottonwoods, 688

Upper crossing of Ark. r., 439

Upper Ford, Tex., 645

Upper Fox r., 295, 300, 301

Upper Gravel r., 376, 377

Upper Iaway r., 48

Upper Iowa r., 42, 44, 45, 48, 206, 305, 307, 308, 339, 342

Upper l., near Red Wing, Minn., 70

Upper Nicollet l., 165

Upper or Eleven Mile ca√±on, 466

Upper Pajarito, N. M., 626

Upper Pimas, 735

Upper Red Cedar l., xlviii, 153, 157, 158, 159, 323, 326, 351, 356

Upper Red r. of Pike, 535

Upper Rio Grande, 474

Upper St. Croix l., 72, 309, 310

Upper St. Croix r., 309

Upper Zumbro outlet, 61

Uraba was a name of Taos

Ures, 773

Usawa, Usaw-way l., 162, 331

Usaya, 744

Utah, 630, 731, 732, 733, 734, 735, 736

Utah Inds., 508, 535, 537, 591, 618, 744, 746, 849, 850

Utah l., 738

Ute cr., 494

Ute cr. = Brush Hollow cr., 462

Ute Inds., xlvi, 448, 453, 492, 596, 743, 816

Ute pass, 456, 464

Utica, N. Y., xlvi


V

Vacamora, 771

Vache Blanche, 347

Valasco, F., 817, 819, 820

Valencia co., N. M., 628, 629, 742

Valencia, N. M., 618, 628

Valladolid, Mex., 720, 721, 723

Valladolid, Spain, 720

Vallance, J., 553

Valley City, Ia., 25

Vallois, Don P., 661, 662

Vallois, Se√±ora M., 659

Valverde ford is near the ruins of Valverde, and about 5 m. N. of Fort
Craig, N. M.

Valverde, N. M., 633, 634

Van Bibber, Mr., 367

Van Buren, Ark., 559

Van Buren, M., 358

Vandals, 632

Van Dalsem, Capt. H. H., cviii

Vandermaelen l., 160

Vaqueria, 684

vaquero, 684

vara, 669

Varennes, P. G. de, 254

Vargas, 737

Vasquez, A. F. B., or "Baroney," lxiv, 359, 360, 361, 362, 364, 365,
368, 371, 386, 387, 390, 393, 401, 403, 414, 416, 420, 421, 422, 429,
432, 435, 449, 459, 470, 472, 474, 477, 478, 480, 481, 482, 490, 506,
509, 510, 545, 579, 580, 612, 834, 845, 853, 855

Vaugondy, 559, 695, 734

Veau, Mr. Jacques, 194, 195

Vegas, Col., 459

Velasco, see Valasco, F.

Velasco, viceroy, 755

Vellita, N. M., 629

Venadito, 685

Venus' spr., 651

Vequeria cr., 683

Vequeria, Mex., 683, 684

Vera Cruz, administration or State of, 673, 718, 720, 721, 722, 723,
724

Vera Cruz, city of, 721, 722, 791

Veragua, Veraqua, 726

Verdegris r., 400

Verde r., Ariz., 727, 730, 734

Verde r., Mex., 721

Verdigris, Kas., 400

Verdigris, Verdigrise r., 399, 400, 515, 532, 555, 556, 557, 560, 584

Verendrye, Le Sieur de, 254, 255, 256

Veritas, Caput, 331

Vermijo r., 558

Vermilion cr., br. of Osage r., 377, 378

Vermilion r., br. of Ark. r., 395, 400, 514, 515, 555, 557

Vermilion r., br. of Miss. r., Cass co., Minn., 147

Vermilion r., br. of Miss. r., Dakota co., Minn., 72, 73

Vermilion r. of Beltrami = Deer r., Minn., 147

Vermilion sea, old name of the Gulf of California, for Red sea

Vermilion sl., 73

Vermillion isl., 298, 356

Vermillion r. of Pike, br. of Osage r., 379

Vermont, 570

Vermonter, 242

Vernon co., Mo., 370, 385

Vernon co., Wis., 49

Verte, Isle, 297

Verte r., 77, 78

Verum Caput, 165, 331

Verumontanum, 165

Verwyst, 101

Veta pass, 492, 494

Viana, Capt. or Don F., 412, 709, 710, 839

Viceroyalty of New Spain, 719

Vicksburg, Miss., 708

Victoria City, Mex., 724

Victoria, Wis., 49

Victor, Kas., 422

Victory, Wis., 45

Vide-poche, 215

Vieau, Jacques, 194

Vieux Desert l., 128

Vigil, D., 607

Village Creek, Ia., 43

Village de Charette, 568, 572

Villamil, Don B., 659, 661, 662

Villa Rica de la Vera Cruz, 722

Villiers, N. de, 214

Villineuve, a person, 413

Vimont's Relations, 31

Vine cr., 559

vineyards, 681

Vingt-une isl., 361

Viola, Wis., 41

Virginia, a boat, 84

Virginia, a State, xxvii, xxviii, liii, lxxxviii, 656, 691, 715, 826,
833

Virgin r., 732

Visscher, Capt. N. J., xxvi, xxvii

Vitior, 613, 614. This baffling name is clearly a misprint, Mr. F. W.
Hodge believes, for Sienega (Cienega), place on a cr. of same name,
br. of Santa F√© r., 2 m. S. E. of Cieneguilla, which appears on most
maps of to-day. Cienega and Cieneguilla were both towns of Santa F√©
co. in 1844, but La Bajada may be later. Cienega had pop. 500, and
Cieneguilla, pop. 300, in 1853-54, according to Whipple, P. R. R. Rep.
III., Pt. 3, p. 12

Vocabulary, etc., 355

volcano, 723

Volcano sta., N. M., 597

Volney, Count, 154

Voltaire, 154, 801

Vulgate, 182


W

Wabasha, 43, 171, 206, 260, 342, 347, 348

Wabasha I., II., III., 44

Wabasha co., Minn., 56, 57, 64

Wabasha, Minn., 57, 59, 60, 61

Wabasha st., St. Paul, 74

Wabashaw, 44, 88

Wabash r., 68, 438

Wabash Ry., 8, 15

Wabash, St. Louis, and Pacific R. R., 360

Wabesapinica, Wabezipinikan, Wabisapencun, Wabisapincun, Wabisipinekan
r., 26

Wabezi r., 122

Wabiscihouwa, 44

Wabisipinekan r., 293

Wabizio-sibi, 122

Wablo cr., 383

Waboji, 338

Wacanto, Wacantoe, 343, 347

Wachpecoutes, 263

Waconda, Mo., 12

Waconda, Wacondaw pra., 12

Wacoota, Wacouta, 69

Wacouta, Goodhue co., Minn., 63

Waddapawmenesotor, 81

Wadena co., Minn., 128

Wade, Pvt., 332

Wadub r., 101

Wagoner's cr., 15

Wahkantahpay, 88

Wahkanto, 349

Wahkootay is Wacouta, 88

Wahkpakotoan, 344, 345, 349

Wahkpatoan, 345, 349

Wahpatoota, 349

Wahpaykootans, 88

Wahpeton Sioux, 85

Wahpetonwans, 118

Wajhustachay, 61

Wakan-tibi, 200

Wakarusa pt., 520

Wakarusa r., 408, 520

Wakoan, 706

Wakomiti is the Ojibway name of the stream misnamed Hennepin r., and
should stand: see Annals of Iowa, Apr., 1895, p. 26

Wakon-teebe, 198

Wakouta, 62, 69

Wakouta, Goodhue co., Minn., 63

Wakpatanka is Sioux name of the Miss. r., meaning Great river

Wakpatons, 313

Wakuta, Wakute, see Wacoota, 69

Walapais, 736

Walbach, Gen. J. De B., xxvii, xxviii

Walker, Capt. Joel P., of Cal., 446

Walker, Lt. J. P., 656, 658, 660, 664, 665, 666, 761, 767, 817, 819,
820, 821, 830

Walking Buffalo, a chf., 69, 88

Wallace co., Kas., 404

Wallace, Joseph, 531, 532, 560, 714

Wallace, N. M., see Santo Domingo, N. M.

Wall, a Mr., xxi

Walnut cr., br. of Ark. r., 424, 425, 426, 429, 517, 518, 522, 545,
546, 547

Walnut cr., or White Water r., 549

Walnut Hills, lii, 657

Walpi, 744, is Pike's Gualpi

Walworth, Capt. John, lxxxvii, lxxxviii

Wamaneopenutah, 347

Wamdetanka, 85

Wamendetanka, 348

Wamendi-hi, 118

Waminisabah, 347

Wanomon r., 147

Wanotan, 349

Wanyecha cr., 94

Wapahasha, Wapasha, Wapashaw, 43, 44, 61, 86, 348

Wapello, Louisa co., Ia., named for a chf. who had his village on Iowa
r. near present city

Wapsipinecon, Wapsipinicon r., 26

Wapuchuseamma, 745

Waqpatonwan, Waqpetonwan, 313, 343

Waqpekute, 344

Waraju r., 66

War Department, xix, xx, xxii, l, lviii, lix, lx, lxi, lxiii, lxv,
lxxii, xcvi, cxiii, 236, 239, 446, 549, 554, 593, 645, 812, 842, 844,
851, 855

Ward, see Johnston and, 554

Ward, Prof. L. F., 38

Ward's isl., 11

War Eagle, 348

Warm spr., Mex., 652, 653

Warm spr., N. M., 597

Warner's ldg., 49

Warpekutes, 44

Warpetonwans, 313

Warpool l., 129, 317

Warren co., Mo., 363, 364, 365, 366

Warren, Gen. G. K., xlv, 56, 57, 58, 62, 91, 295, 310, 333, 457, 558

Warren, Gen. Jos., cvi, cix

Warren, Hon. W. W., 31, 127, 134, 150, 157, 170, 171, 176

Warsaw, Ill., 14

Warsaw isl., 379

Warsaw, Mo., 379

wars of Pawnees, 535

Warwater r., 128

Wasaba Tunga, 591

Wasbasha, 590

Wascheta r., 827

Wasetihoge r., 555

Washburn co., Wis., 309

Washington co., Ark., 558

Washington co., Minn., 72, 73, 74

Washington, D. C., xxxiv, xlii, li, liv, lvi, lviii, lix, lx, lxiii,
lxv, 358, 410, 510, 538, 550, 551, 582, 583, 587, 647, 656, 812, 813,
827, 833, 835, 845, 851, 855

Washington, Geo., lvi, lxvi, lxviii, lxx, 49, 289, 408, 656, 701

Washington Irving's l., see Irving l.

Washington isl., 279

Washington, Mo., 363, 364

Washington, Tex., 560, 707

Washione, 347

Washita r., 612, 704, 827

Washpecoute, 344, 345, 346, 347

Washpetong, 343, 344, 345, 346, 347

Wasonquianni, 343, 347

watab, 101, 102

Watab rap., 101, 102

Watab r., 101

Watapan Menesota, 81

Watapan Tancha, a form of the Sioux name of the Miss. r.

watap, watapeh, 101

Watchawaha, Watchkesingar, 591

Wate-paw-men√©-Sauta as Sioux name of Minnesota r. in Schlc., 1820

water-oats, water-rice, 38

Waters, John, liii

Watertown, Ill., 25, 210

Watp√†-menisoth√©, 81

Watson, Prof. S., 39

Wattah r., 101

wattap, 102

Waubojeeg, 127

Waucon Junction, 41

Waucouta, see Wacouta

Waukan r., 301

Waukenabo l., 135

Waukon, Ia., 41

Waukon Junction, 41

Wauppaushaw, 43, 54

Wawana, 143

Way Aga (or Ago) Enagee, 86, 231, 238

Wayne co., Mich., xxvi, cxi

Wayne co., N. C., cxi

Wayne co., O., cxi

Wayne, Gen. A., xxvi, 438, 712

Wazi Oju r., 57

Weablo cr., 383

Wea cr., 519

Weakaote, 349

Weather Diary, 216, 217, 218, 219, 220, 716, 717

Weaubleau cr., 383

Weaver mts., 730

Webber cr., 559

Webber's falls, 558, 559

Webber's Falls, Ind. Terr., 558

Webb, Tex., 690

Webster co., Mo., 376, 380

Webster co., Neb., 404, 410

Webster park, 462, 478, 479

Weed Bush is a corruption of Vide Poche

Weekly Register, see Niles'

Wejegi, 630

Weller-Conde line, 644

Weller, J. B., 644, 645

Wellman, W. D., 365

Well of Mineral Water, 680

Well of Putrid Water, 680

Wells' br., 377

Wells cr., 63, 65

wells in Mexico, 680

Wellsville sta., 475

Wenepec l., 322

Wentaron is a form of the Ind. name of Lake Simcoe

West Arm of Lake Itasca, so namedby Brower, see Itasca l.

West Brainerd, Minn., 130

Western battery, lxxvii, lxxviii, lxxix, lxxxviii, xc, xcvi, cii

Western Ocean, 524, 721, 722

West Fork of Miss. r., on Eastman's map of 1855, is the main stream
from Lake Itasca

West Indies, 718

West Lake Champlain, lxxii

Westminster, Engl., 167

West Monument cr., 452

West Naiwa r., 162

West Newton chute, 57

West Oil cr., 465

West Ojibway, see Ojibway, Minn.

Weston gulch, 471

West Point, N. Y., xxvi, lxvii, lxxxvii, 405, 656, 734

Westport isl., 5

Westport, Jackson co., Mo., 408, 517, 518, 519

Westport, Lincoln co., Mo., 5

West Quincy, Mo., 9

West Savannah r., 138

West Swan r. of Nicollet, 143

West Turkey cr., Col., 455

West Turkey cr., Kas., 522

Wet Glaize cr., 375

Wetmore's Gazetteer, 3

Wet mts., 448, 451, 463, 482, 483, 484, 485, 487, 488, 848

Wet Mountain valley, 482, 483, 434, 485, 848

Wet Stone, a chf., 531

Wet Walnut cr., 425, 426

Whakoon-Thiiby, 200

Wheeler, Lt. G. M., 483

Whelply, Pvt. D., 1, 854

Whipple, A. W., 645, 735

Whipple, Capt. J., xxvi, xxvii

Whipple l., named by Rev. J. A. Gilfillan for Bishop H. B. Whipple,
165

Whistler, Maj. J., 358

White Bear-skin r., 131, 177

White Blanket, a chf., 347

White Buffalo, a chf., 347

White Bustard or Buzzard, a chf., 89

White Dog, a chf., 121, 189

whitefish, 169, 297

White Fisher, a chf., 127, 176

Whitefish l., 133, 173, 174, 175, 319, 334

White Hair, a chf., 387, 388, 390, 551, 558, 563, 565, 576, 578, 579,
591, and see Cheveux Blancs

Whitehouse's isl., 366

Whitely cr. is a name of the Rice or Nagajika cr. 2 m. N. E. of
Brainerd

Whitely isl. is just below Seventh or French raps.

White Mountain Apaches, 748

White mts., Ariz., 730

White mts., N. H., 454

White mts., N. M., 631, 640, 736

White mts. of Pike, in Col., 483, 492, 493

White Nails, a chf., 349

White Oak l., 147, 148

White Oak or Stephens l., 147, 148, 150

White Oak pt., 146, 147, 148, 150

White r., br. of Miss. or of Ark. r., 514, 515, 757

White r. or Ark. r., 692, 694

White r. or Cottonwood r., 402

White r. or Neosho r., 397, 398, 473, 514, 515, 584

White r., Wis., 301

White Rock cr., Kas., 404, 405, 408, 409

White Rock, Kas., 409

White Rock, on Minnesota r., 343

White Rock, St. Paul, Minn., 75

Whiteside co., Ill., 27

White Skin, a chf., 347

White Snow mts. of Pike, 479

white spruce, 102

White Water cr., N. M., 637

White Water r., Kas., 549

White Water r., Minn., 56, 57, 305

White Wolf, a chf., 542, 551, 591

whitewood, a tree, 315

Whiting, Gen. H., xix, xxx, xxxiv, xlv, lxviii, lxxiv, lxxix, lxxxv,
lxxxix, xc, xcix, cvi, 44, 275, 499, 500, 501

Whitman, Kas., 549

Whitney, a Mr., 302

Who-walks-pursuing-a-hawk, a chf., 85

Whymper, Edw., 461

Wiahuga, 349

Wibru, Corporal, 332

Wichaniwa r., 95, 97

Wichita, Kas., 548

Wichita res., 412

Wiggins, O. P., 457

Wild Bull r., 58

Wildcat cr., 49

wild hogs, 697

Wild Horse cr., 442

wild horses, 433, 435, 436, 738, 782, 783

wild oats or rice, 38

Wild Oats r. of L. and C. map, 1814, and of Beltrami, is that Rice r.
which is between Aitkin and Willow r., 138

wild pigeons, 211

Wild Rice l., on Willow River route, 320

Wild Rice Sissetons, 349

wild rye, 47

wild sheep, 438

Wild Swan r., 143

Wilkinson, Gen. James, xxi, xxii, xxvii, xxix, xlvi, li, lv, lvi,
lvii, lviii, lxiii, lxiv, lxxiv, 2, 15, 17, 37, 84, 85, 206, 221, 222,
223, 224, 225, 229, 232, 237, 239, 240, 244, 246, 255, 259, 269, 270,
271, 273, 293, 358, 361, 375, 381, 386, 388, 392, 418, 431, 481, 500,
504, 539, 561, 562, 563, 564, 565, 566, 567, 568, 569, 570, 571, 572,
573, 574, 575, 582, 585, 586, 587, 588, 589, 592, 593, 594, 662, 697,
703, 712, 810, 817, 819, 820, 821, 824, 836, 841, 842, 844, 845, 852

Wilkinson, Lieut. J. B., xxxvi, xli, li, 223, 225, 263, 359, 360, 361,
364, 365, 372, 373, 381, 382, 385, 386, 387, 389, 390, 392, 393, 403,
406, 407, 409, 414, 421, 425, 426, 427, 431, 432, 514, 515, 518, 532,
539, 540, 541, 542, 543, 544, 545, 546, 547, 565, 568, 572, 577, 578,
580, 585, 587, 589, 592, 708, 818, 819, 824, 826, 827, 833, 834, 835,
845, 846, 852, 855

Wilkinson's Report on the Arkansaw, 432, 539 to 561

Wilkinsonville, xxvi

Williamsburg, Col., 482

Williams, Gen. J. R., xxiii, xxx

Williams, Helen M., xli

Williams isl., in Osage r., 377

Williams, J. Fletcher, xxxv, 31, 44, 76, 85, 87, 88, 201

Williams, Lt.-Col. Jonathan, xxvii, xxix

Williams, Lt. J. R., preface, xxiii, xxx

Williams, Lt., unidentified, xxvi, xxviii, is no doubt Thomas W.
Williams of N. Y., ensign 12th Infantry Jan. 14th, 1799, second
lieutenant Mar. 2d, 1799, honorably discharged June 15th, 1800, second
lieutenant 1st Infantry Feb. 16th, 1801, resigned July 28th, 1801

Williams' pass, 491

Williams, Peter, 18

Williamson, Lt. R. S., see Fort Ripley

Willibob l., 143

Willow cr., br. of Ark. r., Col., 443

Willow cr., br. of Cottonwood r., Kas., 401

Willow cr., br. of Osage r., Mo., 385

Willow cr. or Lost cr., Kas., 518

Willow Inds., 278

Willowmarsh l., 26

Willow portage, 142

Willow r., 137, 142, 153, 155, 320

Willows, Mex., 684

Willow spr., 518, 519, 520

Willow Springs cr., 459

Wilmot, Mr., 207, 209, 211

Wilson co., Kas., 555

Wilson cr., br. of Oil cr., 464, 465

Wilson isl., 98

Wilson, Lt. J., xxvi, xxviii

Wilson, Mr., on Pike's pk., 457

Wilson, Pvt. J., 359, 432, 548, 845, 855

Wilson's cr., br. of Huerfano r., 491

Winapicane, 819

Winboshish appears on Stieler's Hand Atlas for Winnibigoshish

Winchell, Prof. N. H., preface, 95, 106, 333

Winchester, Va., liii

Wind, a chf., 371, 387, 389, 392, 393, 540, 550, 578, 580, 581

windshake or windshock, 109

Wind that Walks, a chf., 203, 347

Windy pt., 324

Winebagos, 346, 347

Winepie l., 168

Wing pra., 54

Winipec or Winnibigoshish l., 322

Winipeg l., 351, 353

Winipeque br. of Miss. r., or main r. above Leech Lake br., 325

Winipeque or Winnibigoshish l., 149, 152, 322, 323

Winipie or Winnibigoshish l., 149, 152, 351

Winipie or Winnipeg l., 278, 280, 322, 327, 351, 353

Winnebago cape, 42, 43

Winnebago chain, 25

Winnebago council, 207, 208, 209

Winnebago co., 300, 301

Winnebago cr. or r., 42, 43, 46

Winnebago Inds., 31, 39, 43, 265, 266, 340, 341

Winnebago l., 24, 295, 300, 301, 340

Winnebago pra., Stearns co., Minn., between Watab raps. and Brockway

Winnebago rap., 300

Winnebago village, 300

Winnebeegogish l. of Schlc., 1855

Winnepegoosis l., 322

Winnepeg or Winnibigoshish l., 322

Winneshiek sl., 42

Winnibigoshish l., 138, 149, 152, 153, 158, 159, 168, 317, 322, 323,
324, 325

Winnipec or Winnibigoshish l., 322, 327

Winnipeg l., 351, 353

Winnipegoos is Winnibigoshish l., D. Thompson, 1798

Winnipek is Winnibigoshish l., Schlc., 1855

Winona, a maiden of myth, 66

Winona co., Minn., 52, 53, 57

Winona, Minn., 54, 55, 56, 88, 206

Winship, W. W., preface

Winsor, J., 296

Winterbotham's map, xli, 696, 697, 702, 707

wintering grounds, 99

Winter's ldg., 53

Wisconsan r., 35

Wisconsin Central R. R., 302

Wisconsin r., 3, 34, 35, 71, 78, 224, 295, 302, 303, 304, 338

Wiscoup, 156, 259, 347, 351

Wise Family, a chf., 591

Wise, Kas., 397

wishtonwish, 429, 430, 431

Wislizenus, Dr., 339, 437, 446, 518, 521, 631, 635, 649, 650, 652,
653, 654, 667, 668, 669, 670, 671, 672, 674, 675, 680, 681, 682, 683,
684, 739, 747, 759

Wissakude r., 309

Withlachoochee r., lxxxvii

Without Ears, a chf., 591

Without Nerve, a chf., 591

Wiyakonda, Mo., 12

Woco-sibi, Wokeosiby, 127

Wolf cr., br. of Ark. r. in Col., 442

Wolf cr. of Pike, 103, 184

Wolfe, Gen., lxxxiii, c

Wolf Inds., 35, 338

Wolf r., 300, 301, 356

Wollstonecraft, Maj. C., 715

Wolverine cr., 396

Woman in White mt., 723

women and children, 286

Woodbridge, N. J., lix

Woodcock, 88

Wood cr., br. of Miss. r., 2

Wood cr., br. of Mo. r., 363, 364

Wood, Mr., 201, 202, 205, 206, 207

Woodruff, J. C., 554

Woods, Lake of the, 279, 281, 351

Woods, Mr., 37, 42

Woodson co., Kas., 395, 398, 399

Wool, Gen. J. E., 669, 674, 679, 684

Woolstoncraft, Capt., 715

Wooster, Maj. Gen. D., cvi

Worcester, Mass., xxxiv

Word of God, 182

wounded, see killed and

Wright co., Minn., 96, 97, 98

Wright's cr., 381

Wright's isl., 379

Wrightstown, 299

Wuckan l., 340

Wuckiew Nutch, 208, 343, 347

Wukunsna, 347

Wyaconda, Mo., 12

Wyaconda r., 9, 291

Wyaganage, 86, 342, 347

Wyalusing, Wis., 34

Wyoming co., N. Y., cx

Wyoming, Ia., 23

Wyoming sl., 23


X

Xacco l., 673

Xalisco, 719

Xaxales, 628, 629, has been thought to have been so called as once a
temporary Apache rancheria of huts, jacales, or xacales; but see
Jarales. The form Xarales is also found

Xenia, Kas., 396, 397

Xicarilla for Jicarilla, in Don Jos√© Cortez, 1799

Xila is Gila

Xisuthros, 182

Xocoyotzin, 737

Xougapavi is Shongapavi

X. Y. Company, 139, 277

X. Y. Z., one, 336


Y

Yaatze, see San Marcos

Yabijoias, 735, of Pike, simply error in copying Indiens Yabipias √†
longues barbes from Humboldt's map

Yahowa r., 22, see Iowa r.

Yahowa r., 44, see Upper Iowa r.

Yakwal, 706

Yamajab is Mojave

Yamaya, 735

Yampancas r., 738

Yamparicas Inds., 738

Yanctongs, 120, 121, 197, 207, 208, 258, 264, 267, 343, 344, 345, 346,
347, see Yanktons

Yanctons for Hietans, 563

Yanga r., 540

Yankee, 188

Yanktoan, 345, 349

Yanktoanan, 345, 349

Yanktonnais, 343

Yanktons, 120, 343, 346, 347

Yanos, 653

Yaos, 598

Yaqui r., 771, 773

Yattasses, 713

Yavapais, 735

Yavasupai Inds., 731, 736, see Havasupai

Yawayes or Yawayhaws are Iowa Inds.

Yawoha, Yawowa r., 22, see Iowa r.

Yawowa r., 44, see Upper Iowa r.

Yeager's ldg., 366

Yellow banks, 19

Yellow Head, a chf., 158

Yellow Head r., 334

Yellow r., br. of Miss. r., 38, 41, 305, 355

Yellow r., br. of St. Croix r., 309

Yellow Skin Deer, a chf., 591

Yellow Spider, a chf., 347

Yellowstone Park, 473

Yellowstone r., 168, 479, 642, 729, 733

Yeo, Sir J., lxxiv

York harbor, lxxiv

York, killed and wounded at, xci

Yorktown, lxvi

York, U. C., xxiii, lxxvi, lxxvii, lxxviii, lxxix, lxxx, lxxxiii,
lxxxiv, xxxv, lxxxvii, xcii, xciii, xciv, xcv, xcvii, c, ci, ciii,
civ, cv, cvi, and see Fort York

Youngar r., 376

Young, Brigham, 411

Young, Col., xcv

Youngs, Capt. White, lxxxvi, cix

Yrujo, see Cassa Yrujo

Yucatan, 718, 726

Yucca arborescens, 776

Yucca canaliculata, 776

yuccas, 776

Yucca treculeana, 776

Yuma, Col., 646

Yuma, Yuman Inds., 735, 736, 744

Yungar r., 375, 376, 513, 540

Yunque, Yuque, Yunque, see Chamita

Yuraba was a name of Taos

Yutas, 816, see Utes


Z

Zacataca, Zacatecas, administration, city and State, 719, 720, 723,
724, 725, 755, 759, 775

Zakatagana-sibi, 103

Zandia mts., 618

Zandia pueblo, 618

Zanguananos r., 732

Zapato cr., 493

Zaragoza, 674

Zaragoza, Coahuila de, 775

Zavalza, 674

Zenia, Kas., 396

Zerbin, Dr., 698, 699, 700

Zesuqua, 605

Zia, 745

Ziamma, 745

Zibola, 742

Zizania aquatica, 38, 39

Zond, see Fond

Zoto for Les Otoes, 346

Z. R., cv

Zuloaga, Don M., 659, 660, 662, 665

Zumbro r., 56, 57, 58, 59, 61, 305

Zumi, Zu√±i, Zu√±ian, 629, 630

Zu√±i, see Old Zu√±i

Zu√±ian mts., 730

Zu√±iga y Azevedo, C. de, 725

Zu√±i is a Keresan name of the Zu√±is

Zu√±i r., 630

Zu√±is, Zu√±ians, 737, 742, 743, 744, 745


THE END.




[Illustration: A CHART of the INTERNAL PART OF LOUISIANA,

Including all the hitherto unexplored Countries, lying between the
River La Platte of the Missouri on the N: and the Red River on the S:
the Mississippi East and the Mountains of Mexico West; with a Part of
New Mexico & the Province of Texas by Z. M. PIKE Capt.^n U.S.I.]


[Illustration: A MAP of THE INTERNAL PROVINCES OF NEW SPAIN.

_The Outlines are from the Sketches of but corrected and improved by
Captain ZEBULON M. PIKE who was conducted through that COUNTRY in the
Year 1807, by Order of the Commandant General of those Provinces.]


[Illustration: The FIRST PART of CAPT^N PIKE'S CHART of the
Internal Part of LOUISIANA

Plate 1.

_See Plate 2^d & References.

Reduced and laid down on a Scale of 40 miles to the Inch.

By Anthony Nau.]


[Illustration: A SKETCH of the VICE ROYALTY Exhibiting _the several
Provinces and its Aproximation to the Internal Provinces of NEW SPAIN.

Harrison sc^t]


[Illustration: HISTORICO=GEOGRAPHICAL CHART OF THE UPPER MISSISSIPPI
RIVER

COMPILED AND DRAWN TO ACCOMPANY PIKE'S EXPEDITIONS, UNDER THE
DIRECTION OF DR Elliott Coues, BY DAN'L W. CRONIN.

1895

Copyright, 1895 by Francis P. Harper, N. Y.]


[Illustration: THE INFANT MISSISSIPPI OR CRADLED HERCULES.

(AFTER BROWER)]


[Illustration: MAP OF THE Mississippi River FROM ITS SOURCE to the
MOUTH of the MISSOURI:

Laid down from the notes of Lieut^t Z. M. Pike, by Anthony Nau.

Reduced, and corrected by the Astronomical Observations of M^r.
Thompson at its source; and of Capt^n. M. Lewis, where it receives the
waters of the Missouri.

BY. NICH^S. KING.

Engraved by Francis Shallus. Philadelphia]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Expeditions of Zebulon Montgomery
Pike, Volume III (of 3), by Elliott Coues

